  After dominating the market for Internet access for nearly a decade, AOL has seen its 25 million US members begin to defect in droves to cut-rate dial-up competitors and to broadband rivals who are beginning to slash their monthly fees in a burgeoning price war. Now, AOL is launching a new effort to stem the tide. On July 31, the company will release the most significant upgrade to its software in years, certainly since the disastrous merger with Time Warner was unveiled in January, 2000. AOL 9.0 will boast over 100 new features, including faster downloads, free e-mail storage on AOL's computers, and an easy way for subscribers to keep blogs, or online journals. Most important, AOL 9.0 will be the doorway to a brand-new world of online content. It is designed to help subscribers tap into a growing number of music, video, and magazine offerings from Time Warner.
  Tired of those trips to the video store to rent the latest DVD? Hollywood says it has the answer in a pair of online movie stores that let you download the latest Arnold or Julia flick directly to your computer. But, like everything Hollywood offers up, the magic is getting it on the screen. Unless you've got an up-to-date PC and a broadband connection, neither site is a real blockbuster. For starters, neither Movielink nor CinemaNow stocks nearly as many titles as your local video store. For those who just want to see Matrix Reloaded, the local video palace still beats these sites.
  After years of anticipation, this holiday season seems destined to go down in the books as the First Broadband Christmas. Thanks to sharp cuts in the price of high-speed Internet access, the number of U.S. homes with broadband has jumped 38% from last holiday season to 22 million, according to consulting firm IDC. That spells big opportunities for e-merchants. Not only are broadband customers online for more of the day than their dial-up brethren, they also spend as much as 30% more. To reel in these shoppers, e-tailers ranging from Amazon.com Inc. to shoe site Zappos.com Inc. are ugrading their Web sites with videos, better pictures, more sophisticated product comparisons, and the ability to customize everything from diamond rings to dress shirts.
