  Founded in 2009, Kickstarter is an online fundraising platform for creative projects. Musicians, designers, filmmakers, and other artists craft a short pitch, usually a video, post it on the site, and set a fundraising target and a time frame. If the project meets its goal, Kickstarter, a for-profit company, takes a 5% cut and the creator gets the rest. Kickstarter has emerged as a legitimate option for financing independent films, where a six-figure project is on the low end. So far, the company has raised more than $21 million from nearly 240,000 backers for 2,443 films, according to co-founder Yancey Strickler. He says six films have crossed the $100,000 mark. Independence is one of Kickstarter's main advantages over the typical filmmaker fundraising road show.
  In 2006, Adam Beguelin sold his startup, a video-search site called Truveo, to AOL for $50 million. Then he decided to pack up his family and move to Vietnam for a year of kite-surfing and cultural exploration. He is now back in the US and working on Sensr.net, a site that makes it easy to view, share, and store video feeds from network cameras, which connect to the Internet without need for a PC. Sensr monitors video from such cameras using any Internet-connected device. The site stores an unlimited amount of low-quality video and for a small monthly fee will start keeping high-definition feeds later this year. Beguelin says his service, which will also make it easy to share videos on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter, is about socializing these devices.
  Deborah Lloyd, creative director of Kate Spade New York, has turned around Kate Spade by infusing it with her own quirky sensibility. A brand once best known for minimalist, angular handbags coveted by 40-year-old suburban moms today has a hipper take aimed at urban professionals between the ages of 26 and 36. Sales have doubled to $185 million since Lloyd arrived three years ago, helping make Kate Spade the best performer of Liz Claiborne's collection of brands. Lloyd and Craig Leavitt, the company's chief executive officer, devised a strategy that included bringing out more collections each year and expanding overseas, especially in China and Japan. Lloyd and Leavitt have boosted marketing to a younger crowd with the requisite Facebook page, Twitter feed, and YouTube videos.
"  Even in the present era of 10,000 niches, mass customization, and the ""long tail"" -- of companies selling fewer items from a far vaster inventory -- people are, arguably, governed more than ever by what's popular. Thanks to the Internet's ability to rank everything, one can dwell almost exclusively in the world of trending Twitter topics, of top-reviewed restaurants, of Amazon.com bestselling books, of the cutest cute-cat YouTube videos. News sites all feature tallies of the Most Read, Most E-mailed, and Most Commented On articles -- creating a self-reinforcing conversation. This article presents the results of a survey on persons, products, or trends that experienced the greatest commercial growth or surge in popularity during 2010, or between last year and this one. The entries are plotted based on a relevant number along a scale beginning at zero and running to 14,594,874,110,347."
  Where's My Water?, the new mobile game from Walt Disney, stars Swampy, an alligator who lives in an underground sewer. Players swipe their fingers across an iPhone screen to guide water into his tub while dodging toxic sludge and collecting rubber duckies as prizes. With the 99 cents app, also available for the iPad, the House of Mickey is attempting to do something it has never done before: spin a multimillion-dollar franchise out of a character that made his debut on a 3.5-inch screen. Disney already has Swampy's career plotted out. A 12-episode animated series will air on Disney.com and on YouTube sometime in the first quarter of 2012, part of a recent deal that will have the two companies spend as much as $15 million on co-branded content.
"  Using a palm-size MicroConsole adapter hooked up to the television and home network, a person can play ""in the cloud"" over the Internet, with the games actually running on powerful servers that might be 1,000 miles away. OnLive has the potential to be disruptive, maybe even revolutionary, technology. The $99 adapter plugs into a high-definition port in the television, and comes with a wireless handheld controller and one game. The system does not work over Wi-Fi, so a hardwired Internet connection is required. Hard-core gamers debate whether OnLive's response times are fast enough and whether graphics look as good as they do on a dedicated console. Because OnLive is a service and not just hardware, it offers some cool additional features."
  Online ads have been around since the dawn of the Web, but only in recent years have they become the rapturous life dream of Silicon Valley. Arriving on the heels of Facebook have been blockbusters such as the game maker Zynga and coupon peddler Groupon. Once again, 11 years after the dot-com-era peak of the Nasdaq, Silicon Valley is reaching the saturation point with business plans that hinge on crossed fingers as much as anything else. There's always someone out there crying bubble, it seems; the trick is figuring out when it's easy money -- and when it's a shell game. No one is suggesting that the top tier of ad-centric companies is going down should the bubble pop. As for the next tier or two down, where a profusion of startups is piling into every possible niche involving social networking and ads -- the fate of those companies is anybody's guess.
  Math was something Salman Khan understood. It was one of his majors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, along with computer science and electrical engineering. He is now a quasi-religious figure in a country desperate for a math Moses. His free Web site, dubbed the Khan Academy, may well be the most popular educational site in the world. He has posted more than 2,300 videos, beginning with simple addition and going all the way to subjects such as Green's theorem, normally found in a college calculus syllabus. His program has also spread from the homes of online learners to classrooms around the world, to the point that, in at least a few classrooms, it has supplanted textbooks. Khan is more than just popular. He is a darling of America's amateur educational elite who write checks and invite him to speak at their functions. Many of his followers are tech leaders, who understand more than most how dire America's standing in math education has become and what it may mean.
  This year, Canoe Ventures, the $150 million effort launched by Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications, Charter Communications, Cablevision Systems, and Bright House Networks, finished building a platform that allows advertisers to include interactive elements in commercials -- with Canoe collecting a fee for each ad campaign sold. There's just one problem: The Web got there first. Even if interactivity fails, Canoe has a back-up plan: video-on-demand. In the past 12 months, television viewers have streamed 8 billion videos on demand in the US, says researcher SNL Kagan. Each of these streams can be embedded with so-called dynamic advertising, commercials that can be updated and refreshed over time. Canoe CEO Kathy Timko, who acknowledges the cable companies that bankrolled Canoe want to see results, is hopeful the interactive spots now starting to run on cable networks AMC, E!, and Style Network will draw more advertisers to the technology.
  ReCaptcha still provides more than half of the 280 million captchas solved each day and has had to steadily ratchet up the difficulty. People have really seen the step-up in difficulty, says Tyler Paxton, a University of Michigan business school graduate and part of a recent wave of entrepreneurs who think they have a better alternative. The solution dreamt up by Paxton and his business school friends Reid Tatoris and Benjamin Blackmer: Mini-games. Their startup, aptly named Are You a Human, has created 10 simple games that, they say, are easy for humans to solve but almost impossible for computers. Are You a Human plans to make money by charging advertisers or Web sites to design games that integrate their brands, starting at about $25 per 1,000 games played.
