  Among big consumer Web businesses, there may be no tougher battlefield than video sharing. For video connoisseurs, though, the mainstream services leave a big gap: None combine the reliable, ad-free HD video of Netflix with the kind of marketplace democracy that birthed YouTube's endless stream of cat videos. It's a gap that Vimeo, the video-sharing site loved by artsy filmmakers and long ignored by the market, is starting to fill. Ad-free since its founding in 2004, Vimeo receives about 100 million unique viewers a month through its home page and from other sites that embed its video player, according to CEO Kerry Trainor. The company introduced its on-demand video service to lure more filmmakers and boost subscription sales. So far the site's 4,400 on-demand videos fall somewhere between Netflix's original series and YouTube.
  The YouTube land grab continues: Otter Media, a joint venture between the Chernin Group and AT&amp;T, said it had bought a majority stake in Fullscreen, one of the biggest YouTube networks, in a deal that Bloomberg reports is valued between $200 million and $300 million. It's just the latest in a steady stream of acquisitions that mark the arrival of the really big money to the YouTube market. The world of online video, particularly the stuff favored by younger users, has been built by tiny operations drawing huge audiences to low-budget works. Such companies as Fullscreen came in over the last couple of years and promised professional services to help the little guys scale, signing up creators who thought they might not make it by themselves.
  For years after 1989, when the first episode of America's Funniest Home Videos, aka AFV, aired in prime time on ABC, creator Vin Di Bona trained millions of amateur videographers to mail him their best material. But along came the Internet, and suddenly people no longer needed a television show to share their kid's hilarious trampoline accident with a mass audience. Nevertheless, AFV remains a formidable force in television. In October the series kicked off its 25th season on ABC, making it the network's longest-running prime time entertainment series. But for the first time, AFV is also aggressively extending its brand across the Web, catering to new fans on Facebook, Twitter, image-hosting site Imgur -- and the once-feared YouTube in particular. The show currently operates three YouTube channels: AFV Official, AFV Animals, and AFV Kids, with more YouTube features on the way.
  On Wednesday, Dec 17, two former Hulu executives offered a preview of their new company, Vessel. Like Hulu, the company will offer a free service with advertisements and a premium service with a subscription fee. In Vessel's case, the subscriptions will cost $2.99 a month and will feature exclusive content from creators who grant the company a three-day window during which videos will play only on its site. For months there have been rumors about potential YouTube competitors. Aside from the Vessel founders, much of the speculation has centered on George Strompolos, the CEO of YouTube network Fullscreen. If there's a way to succeed at this, Vessel is well positioned to do so.
  Nickelodeon will on Monday air the first episode of ReactToThat, a television show based on the steady stream of skits, sitcoms, and assorted silliness produced by two of YouTube's biggest stars, brothers from Brooklyn named Benny and Rafi Fine. ReactToThat is basically Kids Say the Darndest Things for the YouTube generation, with panels of children asked to weigh on various cultural and social phenomena. Their success has resulted in a strange sort of obscure celebrity. Hollywood is paying increasing attention to artists who have already made names for themselves online, a reflection of just how big YouTube creators have become among young people. Kids now think YouTube's stars shine brighter than those of Hollywood celebrities, according to a survey of 1,500 teenagers conducted in July for Variety by Jeetendr Sehdev, a professor of marketing at the University of Southern California. The fledgling crossovers from YouTube to the offline entertainment industry is also an acknowledgement of the difficult economics of Web video.
"  Google has already been winning the Super Bowl for weeks. The tech giant's YouTube platform has welcomed a windfall from companies trying to build buzz for the lavish commercials they will air during the big game. Some 17 corporations have already posted ""teaser ads"" on YouTube, according to Google, and while they're free to post, these companies are paying for promotion spots on mastheads, through search results, and in front of other YouTube videos. Ironically, as Super Bowl airtime becomes more expensive, it has become critical for companies to spend heavily to prime viewers. Google, meanwhile, expects the Super Bowl ad blitz to come earlier next year."
  YouTube has been nibbling around the edges of the television industry's $60 billion lunch for some time now. Last night The Information reported that Susan Wojcicki is the candidate likely to take over the video site; Google has neither confirmed nor denied the report. In any case, the challenges for the head of YouTube are clear: The site is one of Google's biggest opportunities to make billions in ad dollars without convincing users to do something differently than what they're already doing. The job now is to get YouTube to grow up. In a way, Wojcicki is an ideal choice, given her deep experience in advertising. But she'd have to help Google develop some new muscles. Video ads are about branding, an arena in which success is harder to measure and habits are deeply ingrained.
"  The GoPro is a tiny, wearable camera, often used by skiers and surfers, that captures and produces high-quality video. Since March 2009, more than 620 GoPro-posted videos have attracted 440 million-plus views, according to YouTube spokesman Matt McLernon. GoPro's own channel ranks in the top 350 on YouTube, and the company's customers are even more prolific. The number of videos with ""GoPro"" in the title has grown so much that watching 2013's crop alone would take you 2.8 years. The privately held company keeps its financials confidential, and because of the pre-IPO ""quiet period"" mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, its executives aren't saying much right now. In December 2012, Foxconn Technology invested $200 million in GoPro, valuing the company at $2.3 billion. At the time, CEO Nicholas Woodman asserted that GoPro's revenue had been doubling every year, to $500 million in 2012."
  Seven years ago Viacom demanded $1 billion from Google because YouTube was rife with videos that had been posted without regard for Viacom's copyrights. The two companies finally settled the dispute on Tuesday, with Re/Code reporting that no money changed hands. In a sense, Viacom finally gave in after signs mounted over the years that it wasn't going to win. A judge ruled in 2013 that it was Viacom's responsibility, not Google's, to find the offending videos. When Viacom filed its initial suit, Google had just begun to experiment with YouTube ads, and the entire online video advertising industry brought in about $580 million, far less than what Viacom itself made from advertising for its media networks.
  A question about how to successfully monetize Web videos are answered. Most independent producers are hobbyists, posting homemade videos for friends and family without worrying about making money from their efforts. But others are finding ways to profit from their videos, and some are even turning them into lucrative, full-time entrepreneurial ventures. The first part -- reaching a targeted viewership -- is not difficult for many online content producers. Most are making videos about their own interests and expertise and aiming them at narrow slices of viewers. Yet even a highly targeted audience can be huge: A beauty industry survey released in February by video software analysis company Pixability counted 700 million YouTube beauty video views every month. That gets into the second key to monetization: building a loyal audience large enough to interest advertisers. Finally, devote the time to interact with your viewers and subscribers.
  A simmering dispute between Google and independent record labels could result this week in the disappearance from YouTube of Adele, the Arctic Monkeys, and additional artists signed to smaller labels. YouTube is in the process of creating a paid subscription service to go alongside its existing service, and the online-video giant has been negotiating deals with artists. This would seem a good thing for the music industry: Labels make more money when fans listen to songs on paid subscription services than they do when fans use YouTube as a free music player. For the most part, labels are on board with the plan. YouTube says 95% of artists have signed deals. But the fight over the final 5% is getting nasty. A number of indie labels are holding out because they don't like the terms they've been offered, and songs that aren't covered by the new streaming service will soon be removed from YouTube altogether.
  Considering the popularity of food and cooking shows on television -- from traditional how-to programs to contrived competitions -- it's only natural that food videos are proliferating online too. Subscriptions to the 300 most-viewed food channels on YouTube more than tripled in 2013 over the previous year and views of videos on those channels jumped 59%, according to a new analysis by Google. Viewers seek everything from recipes to such cooking basics as how to grill. Still, many food videos that go viral have one other component in common -- they're entertaining in the sense that they're absurd, or at least kind of silly, which is one way these online videos distinguish themselves from their rivals on television. Ten of the most-watched food and beverage videos published on YouTube in June are presented.
  Three decades after his song-parody debut, Weird Al Yankovic is on track to have his first No. 1 album. The final sales numbers won't be released until later this week, but Billboard magazine has him neck and neck with Jason Mraz for the top spot. For years, Yankovic's shtick depended on the existence of the MTV-watching, album-purchasing public. Now his publicity and distribution model is doubly obsolete, and thousands of YouTube-empowered enthusiasts are doing exactly what Weird Al does -- and at a much quicker pace than a major-label release schedule allows. The Internet should have made Weird Al Yankovic irrelevant years ago. In fact, it has done the opposite. There is one other reason why Yankovic has stayed remarkably relevant over the past 30 years: his music. And his subject matter is usually more approachable than the original pop songs.
  When Brian Robbins first told people he was going full time into the YouTube business, his colleagues in Hollywood were incredulous. For decades, Robbins had worked in the traditional entertainment industry, first as a teenage actor starring in the ABC sitcom Head of the Class, then as a producer of television shows about teenagers. It was steady and lucrative work, if not always the most prestigious. Robbins's timing was good. After years of more or less passive support, YouTube was starting to take an active role in original programming, encouraging entrepreneurs, producers, and established television stars to start channels, which on YouTube refers to a collection of videos hosted by an individual or by a creative team. In Jun 2012, Robbins launched his YouTube channel, which he named AwesomenessTV. The channel was geared to teenagers and preteens and featured lots of two- to five-minute videos, which ranged from quickie talk shows about beauty tips to mini-reality shows about cheerleaders.
  According to Kathleen Grace, owner of production company New Form Digital, a series of big-name companies such as YouTube and Verizon has been pouring money into digital-video offerings, most trying to differentiate themselves with shows or movies that can't be found elsewhere. Because many of them are asking customers to pay, rather than have them only watch ads, those companies have to work that much harder to draw in viewers. Digital-video producers, especially those focused on programming for smartphones, are enjoying something they didn't have a few years ago: a seller's market. Call it the Netflix effect. The streaming leader's steady push into original shows and movies has forced rivals such as Amazon.com and Hulu to do the same. The new competitors, including YouTube Red and Go90, have learned the lesson. Exclusivity has worked effectively for Netflix, said Peter Csathy, the CEO of consultant Manatt Digital Media.
  Dollar Shave Club, a startup launched two years ago on the strength of a single, silly viral video, has started to grow up. More than a million customers spend about $7 million each month to get razor blades and other grooming products in the mail. Becoming a serious business hasn't changed the tenor of the ads -- still sophomoric and hilarious -- but Dollar Shave Club has shifted its marketing focus from YouTube to traditional television commercials. In the past two years, as Dollar Shave and its competitors ramped up, the number of razors sold at convenience stores has sunk by 2% and the number of blades sold in those shops plummeted by 19%, according to Nielsen data.
  Netflix could one day hit a wall in its US subscriber growth -- with every American who wants it already subscribing -- but that day is certainly not here yet. The video subscription service added 2.3 million subscribers in the fourth quarter, including free trial subscriptions, giving it a total of 33.4 million in the US. That was enough to top the 33.1 million average of 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. At peak times, Netflix viewers represent about a third of US broadband Internet capacity, according to some estimates.
  There is a Web site where cats and dogs rule the day, profanities are common, and clips from Lord of the Rings movies can be used to convey universal sentiments like the joy of revenge. Although it looks like just another photo-sharing hub, it's the best example yet of how a new generation of Internet users prefers to express itself. Imgur is a place to post and browse GIFs, the Internet's de facto file format for pictures and short, punchy animated clips designed for sharing on social networks. Imgur's already profitable, thanks to a stream of display ads from movie studios and video game publishers, and is well on its way to becoming one of the highest-traffic sites in the world, with more than 120 million monthly unique visitors posting images and searching for jolts of humor and insight.
"  Three years after Netflix increased its prices and sparked a painful backlash that savaged its share price, executives at the online-video service are once again testing various prices and streaming combinations beyond $7.99 per month for new members. Last spring, Netflix started an option aimed at families to allow four simultaneous streams for $11.99 per month, and the company has been testing different prices for standard resolution, high definition, and concurrent streaming options. In December, the company began a $6.99 monthly plan that allows streaming to only one screen, and executives spoke of their efforts to find a three-tier ""good, better, best"" pricing plan."
  Bloomberg View's Jonathan Weill calls attention to the case of Benjamin Edelman, an associate professor at Harvard Business School who appears to have single-handedly sent the stock price of a UK company plummeting after publishing an article on his Web site last week. Edelman says that digital media company Blinx, which was recently worth more than $1.2 billion, employs Internet advertising techniques, including pop-up ads, that users dislike, and that cause advertisers to be charged for video ads systematically not visible to users.
  Variety is one of the true joys of the Olympics, a three-week span during which viewers can watch athletes from around the world skiing through the woods with guns, going on spandex-clad sled rides, and soaring above a crappy snowboard halfpipe, all within the course of an hour. But if you're watching NBC's online coverage, better brace yourself for some mind-numbing repetition: The same BP commercial has run three times in four minutes during a replay of the men's moguls, and one spot for Bounty paper towels played three times in a row during a single break. Seeing the same cluster of commercials repeated over an hours-long broadcast isn't unusual for sports fans. But what's merely annoying on television can be torturous for streaming video audiences, where the ad inventory tends to be far more limited.
  On first viewing, it's really cute, that animated Coca-Cola commercial starring a puffin who can't open his bottle and the kindly polar bear who comes to his rescue. But lately people have been fantasizing about plucking the feathers off that smarmy puffin's wings. It's not that people hate polar birds; it's just that they have been forced to watch that ad about 100,000 times while using NBC's otherwise admirable streaming portal, nbcolympics.com. Unlike traditional television broadcasts in which advertisers purchase airtime during commercial breaks, NBC's online operation accepted ads only from its major sponsors for Olympics coverage. The perverse consequence is that by midway in any given event, people had endured Coke's tundra tear-jerker at least a half-dozen times, with few other offerings mixed in between. Repetition has become endemic in digital-video advertising for many sports broadcasts.
  In their pursuit of controlling our every waking hour, tech giants have long tried to commandeer the television experience, and they have the bruises to show for it. Google and Apple, along with startup Roku, have managed to establish modestly popular set-top boxes that stream some movies and live shows to televisions. Now a new contestant has joined the battle for the living room. At a New York press conference on April 2, e-commerce giant Amazon.com unveiled Amazon Fire TV, a small, boxy device designed to stream the company's catalog of free and paid shows and movies into the living room and let users play online video games on their large-screen televisions. This is an ambitious frontal assault on the few businesses that can afford to outspend the retail giant, but for Amazon the potential rewards are uniquely obvious.
  Billions of dollars may be at stake in the final round of the legal dispute between broadcast networks and the online streaming service Aereo, but the case will come down to the interpretation of two words: public performance. Aereo, a two-year-old startup funded by Barry Diller's IAC, charges viewers in about a dozen US markets $8 a month to record or stream live broadcast television signals to their PCs, smartphones, and tablets using dime-size antennas. On Apr 22, the Supreme Court is slated to hear arguments about whether Aereo's distribution of broadcasts infringes copyright law, which says that the rights holder controls the public performance of art -- music, plays, television shows, films. Aereo argues that a court decision against it would threaten a broad range of cloud computing services, because depending on how broad the decision is, it might restrict personal storage of media that users stream themselves. [PUBLICATION ABSTRACT]
 In the past 25 years the cost of broadcast rights for English Premier League soccer has surged thirty-fold as deep-pocketed media companies have grown to depend on live sports to win subscribers and keep them from defecting to online rivals. Next year an even richer bunch -- those same Internet giants that are wooing television viewers -- will likely show up at rights auctions, pushing prices even higher. Live sports attracts a passionate fan base, Greg Hart, video chief at Amazon.com Inc, said in August after signing a deal to offer Association of Tennis Professionals matches on Prime Video.
  AOL executives trotted out the company's new slate of original video programming on Tuesday, part of the increasingly crowded digital NewFronts in New York. A room full of potential advertisers gazed on a lineup larded with big-name talent, including James Franco, Steve Buscemi, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Ellen DeGeneres. But in the end, one established star from the television universe overshadowed all the other would-be transplants scrambling to make a go of it online: Nielsen. For years, Nielsen has dominated the role of measuring television audiences while struggling to achieve the same kind of hegemony online. Over the past year, as part of an ongoing competition with the likes of ComScore, Nielsen has rolled out a number of new Web-audience measuring tools designed to strengthen its still tenuous standing in the evolving firmament.
  If there is anything educational to be gleaned from time-wasting games such as Angry Birds, it's that the app store is a fickle benefactor. Rovio, the Finnish company that makes the game, is now feeling the impact of shifting tastes and trying to move beyond printing money in the form of one-dollar game downloads. The revenue Rovio made from gaming dropped from 2012 to 2013, the company said on Monday, and its profit fell more than 50%. All is not lost: Rovio did bring in more overall revenue than it did the year before and made $37 million in post-tax profit. And the folks behind Angry Birds have known for some time that the music won't play forever, which is why they have been trying to learn how to do two things very differently this time around.
"  As anyone with a young child knows, a storybook or cartoon is the ultimate in ""long-tail"" media consumption: The 53rd rereading or re-watching is cherished just as much as the first time. And that's good news for Netflix, according to a new report from Goldman Sachs. The streaming-video giant has invested heavily in content for children at a time when kids are spending more time on mobile devices. Another positive: Kids have no tolerance for scheduled television, believing this should be an on-demand world, all the time -- Goldman knows kids are like that -- and Netflix follows no rigid programing schedule."
  Every lovestruck teenager in the 1990s made mixtapes they thought were priceless. Google's acquisition of Songza, an online music service, shows that having a talent for mixtapes can net you at least $39 million. The initial genius of online radio was to have computers choose what songs played next, giving rise to a seemingly infinite universe of customized radio stations. Algorithmic disc jockeys (or video curators and news-feed editors) have become standard in most digital media businesses. Songza has a more refined ear. At its office in Queens, one finds a roomful of humans that sit around making playlists all day. The company's formula isn't immune to algorithms -- it uses them in hopes of serving the best playlist at a particular time.
  Yet another popular television show has been plucked from the scrapheap by a fledgling online-video platform. This time it's Yahoo Screen buying an all-new season of Community, a Sony sitcom that NBC canceled in May after a five-season run. Such matchups between a castoff and an underdog platform are becoming an increasingly common twist in the entertainment industry's script. There are only two alternatives to buying new versions of defunct shows: airing reruns or bankrolling original shows. But it's hard to win attention with reruns, and creating new shows can be a fraught path, particularly for a media company such as Yahoo! that has no record of success in scripted programming.
  The viral video strategy is savvy, not only because posting online is much cheaper than running traditional commercials, but also because of the target audience's growing spending power. In April 2013, Unilever's Dove scored the year's largest viral hit with its Real Beauty Sketches, which featured women surprised at how positively their looks are described by strangers. And even companies without female-centric products have gone the same route: Verizon showed a young girl admonished for pursuing technology and science, and Snickers created the confusingly titled You're Not You When You're Hungry, in which starving construction dudes accost women with positive comments. That hasn't stopped bloggers from complaining that the empowerment videos are gimmicky or condescending.
  Netflix accounts for about a third of North America's Internet traffic on a typical evening, and VP for content delivery Ken Florance's team of 50 is charged with keeping the movies and television shows rolling. It's an enormous responsibility. On July 21 the company said its subscriptions had crossed the 50 million mark, accounting for $1.15 billion in revenue for the second quarter, up from $837 million in the same period last year. Florance, a happy-go-lucky pacifist with a cackle of a laugh, is now defending Netflix's interests in one of the nastiest fights in online history: the battle with Internet service providers (ISPs) and regulators over the fundamental structure of the Web. ISPs argue that Netflix takes up too much bandwidth and so any interruptions aren't their problem. Netflix's struggles with the ISPs are in some ways a reflection of its failure to negotiate traffic-sharing partnerships.
  Netflix's second-quarter results popped out Monday afternoon, and here are the highlights: The company posted revenue of $1.15 billion vs. $837 million in the same period last year. Its net income hit $71 million, up from $29 million, and it now has more than 50 million customers worldwide -- 50.05 million, to be precise. Investors gave Netflix a pat on the back for increasing its subscribers at a healthy clip, sending shares 1% higher in after-hours trading. Netflix has spent more and risked more to become a real competitor to HBO and Showtime in programming while maintaining a technology edge over everyone.
  Google appears to have reached an agreement to buy Twitch, a company whose main business is live-streaming videos of people playing video games. A pending deal was first reported by Variety in May, and now VentureBeat says an arrangement has been finalized and will be worth more than $1 billion. If such a deal goes through, it would be a massive validation for the burgeoning industry of watching other people play games.
  The Internet was all in a tizzy Friday over a pressing issue of home entertainment. To paraphrase an infamous line from the hit sitcom, the prospect of Seinfeld on demand is real and it's spectacular. Chuck Larsen, the president of October Moon Television, an independent consulting firm that specializes in syndication rights, points out that Seinfeld's current syndication deals for both cable and broadcast television stations expire this fall. In the past, streaming subscription services such as Netflix might have balked at paying the huge syndication fees commanded by a top-shelf sitcom like Seinfeld. If Netflix does acquire the subscription video on demand rights, Larsen says, the series will continue to air on broadcast and cable television. And while it's likely that Seinfeld fans will soon have access to all 180 episodes somewhere online sometime soon, no deal has been announced yet.
"  Kim Kardashian is the author's matchmaker. She's just set her up with a cute guy named Mitchell, who's a writer but ""not one of those nerdy sitcom writers,"" as she puts it. She meet Mitchell at Panino, a trendy restaurant in Beverly Hills, and opt to ""flirt"" with him. The Kim Kardashian: Hollywood game is currently the fourth most downloaded free app on iTunes -- and also the No.4 top-grossing one. The company behind it, Glu Mobile, which also owns games such as Deer Hunter and Contract Killer, revealed in a July 30 earnings call that Hollywood generated $1.6 million during its first five days on the market (it came out on June 25, and has taken over countless lives since)."
  This month, Netflix, the world's largest subscription streaming video service, will offer the original series Orange Is the New Black and other programming to six European nations, including Germany and France. It aims to reduce its reliance on the US market and establish global dominance before Time Warner's HBO Go and Amazon.com's Prime Instant Video do. The big question is whether Netflix can navigate rules that shield homegrown media companies and local culture. Shows that play well in one country may not in another, so Netflix will have to localize at least some content, a costly undertaking. Netflix has said it aims to generate as much as 80% of sales outside the US. In the past year, international revenue jumped 85%. To provide overseas customers with exclusive content, Netflix is buying worldwide rights to US television shows, including Fox's Gotham and new episodes of Breaking Bad spinoff Better Call Saul.
  This week Paula Deen capped off a summerlong comeback tour by appearing on the Today show to discuss the scandal over racist slurs that last year nearly destroyed her food and media empire and to explain what she's doing next. The following morning, on Wednesday, Sep 24, Deen threw open the doors to her new digital-only subscription media venture, the Paula Deen Network, which is charging $9.99 for a monthly subscription, or $95.88 for a full year. Throughout it all, Deen shows off the familiar persona she spent decades crafting on air at the Food Network -- Southern, maternal, sassy, and just a little bit crass. Everywhere you look on the new site, Deen is front and center, tossing out catchphrases, frying meat, and cackling wildly. No character overhaul here. She'll need it, because the demographics of that world are against her: Digital video networks tend to cater to (and be consumed by) the young and the cable-less.
  The Walking Dead is a true zombie show: Nearly every viewer becomes infected with the gruesome drama and, in turn, passes the infection to others. Consider Sunday's season premiere, the start of the fifth season of Walking Dead. Nielsen says 17.3 million households tuned into the episode, more than one million more than the show's previous peak, reached at last season's debut installment. What's more, about 11 million of the viewers on Sunday were in the 18-49 age range that so excites advertisers. By some measures, Walking Dead has been the most watched show in cable-television history for two years. It's only getting more popular. AMC Networks acknowledges that online video services have cultivated legions of new fans, many of whom don't pay for cable television and follow the zombie action on Netflix or iTunes.
  Recent weeks have brought a steady stream of established television brands and personalities into the Internet's burgeoning world of direct-to-consumer entertainment networks. The list keeps growing: Glenn Beck, WWE, Paula Deen, and now even the illustrious HBO. CBS joined the digital race on Thursday with the launch of CBS All Access, a subscription-based, video-on-demand network that will allow viewers to binge-watch the broadcaster's programming via Internet-connected devices for $5.99 a month. One key factor driving the television programmers' rush to the Internet is that with each passing year more and more Americans are starting to watch some, if not all, of their television shows online. For home viewers, this means that a la carte online-television menu is about to get a lot more diverse and a lot more tempting.
  As an alternative to election night coverage, HBO will launch The Offseason: Kevin Durant, an hour-long documentary about how last season's National Basketball Association Most Valuable Player spent the summer. The Offseason is part of trend whereby star athletes become their own media wings. No longer content just to play the games and give quotes to reporters, the most sought-after players are now writing first-person stories, running digital media startups, and producing television and online videos. The show is not so much a documentary as an hour-long advertisement.
  For the past three years, 27-year-old Ohio native Jessica Beinecke has scripted, acted in, and recorded about five episodes a week of OMG! Meiyu (OMG! American language) -- her hit Internet program that teaches Chinese students American slang. Beinecke's short, spunky videos quickly went viral on Chinese social media in 2011. This year, Beinecke decided to flip her format and make videos geared toward the growing number of young Americans trying to learn Mandarin. Crazy Fresh Chinese went online in January with sponsorship from the 100,000 Strong Foundation, a Department of State initiative started in early 2013 with the goal of encouraging Americans to study Mandarin. A typical video of OMG! Meiyu or Crazy Fresh Chinese starts with Beinecke acting out a situation and explaining how to use slang.
  Sony is the first company out of the gates with an online television package designed to fully replace a cable subscription. The product, first announced at CES back in January, finally has details and a name: PlayStation Vue. Other attempts at streaming-television services, most notably Intel's OnCue system, were stifled by a failure to strike deals with content companies. Sony already has a deal with Viacom to supply 22 channels, including Nickelodeon, MTV, and Comedy Central. Andrew House, the CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment, acknowledges that sports are a must-have. The service will launch on PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 3, and Sony is working on a version for iPads. A year after the PS4 hit the market, many core gamers have already bought consoles, and Sony sees entertainment as a way to goose sales for the next several years.
  DirecTV is launching a Spanish-language streaming service in the US, allowing people to pay $7.99 a month for online access to movies, television shows, and sports in Spanish, even if they don't pay for the company's satellite-television service. DirecTV isn't a complete stranger to online video -- its DirecTV Everywhere platform lets subscribers watch some content on mobile devices and PCs -- but the streaming service hints at the potential for online television products to come. For DirecTV, a major attraction of developing the Spanish-language service, which it calls Yaveo, is to begin building the skills the company will need to get into the broader Internet television business. Starting with a niche service makes sense, in part because mainstream content companies have been suspicious of Internet television.
