  Earlier this summer the Web analytics company TubeMogul released a study estimating that the top indie video producers on YouTube earn north of $100,000 in annual advertising revenue alone. Although the video-sharing site may not be minting millionaire entertainers yet, six-figure incomes are within reach for the most industrious creators. So far in 2010, Rhett McLaughlin and Link Neal, the 32-year-old comedians known professionally as Rhett &amp; Link, videos have averaged 119,457 views per day, according to TubeMogul. What really sets them apart -- lots of YouTube celebrities have more daily views -- is their leadership in doing branded integration, says David Burch of TubeMogul. By branded integration, Burch means sponsorships. For most, the YouTube partner program does not provide enough to survive on. So video makers hustle on multiple fronts: They sell T-shirts and mugs to fans on their YouTube pages. Musicians use videos to sell songs on iTunes and tickets for live gigs.
  Google has long been criticized for relying too heavily on one source of revenue, but it may soon have its first billion-dollar business outside of search advertising. Analysts predict revenues from the company's display advertising business will rise as much as 40% this year, to slightly more than $1 billion. Most of that business will come from selling video and banner ads on YouTube, which Google acquired in 2005.
  Ever since a mid-level engineer at Apple left a prototype iPhone in a Silicon Valley bar on April 18, the tech world has been consumed with the ensuing drama. Apple wouldn't comment for this story, and there's no way of knowing whether the prototype will ever get to market. Yet the device has generated excitement about mobile video communications. Expect a wave of new video-communication technology by Christmas. Skype, based in Luxembourg, plans to introduce a version of its online video-chat service for cell phones. Logitech general manager Eric Kintz says his company will introduce a cell-phone version of its Vid videoconferencing service by the end of the year. Meanwhile, an obstacle to consumer acceptance of earlier generations of videophones was the thought of being seen in a bathrobe or without makeup. And the current generation of Twittering, YouTube-ing over-sharers has fewer privacy concerns.
  On June 30, 2010 the Homeland Security Dept.'s US Immigration &amp; Customs Enforcement arm used a vacant sound stage at Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, CA, to announce the seizure of nine Web sites with names like NinjaVideo.net and thepiratecity.org that allegedly traffic in illegal movie downloads. Hollywood may also get a big win in the pending financial reform legislation that will reshape the regulation of derivatives. Hollywood's biggest win so far has been on movie piracy. Major movie studios and the industry's lobbying group have been generous Democratic Party campaign contributors. Hollywood still has big policy priorities on its agenda. Major movie studios were disappointed by a federal court decision on June 24, 2010 that sided with Google in a lawsuit filed by Viacom alleging that Google's video-sharing Web site, YouTube, did not act quickly enough to take down copyright-infringing content.
"  On the Internet, everyone can hear you scream - including your boss. When 25-year-old Brian Maupin posted a goofy cartoon to YouTube about an interaction between an imbecilic, iPhone-lusting customer and a salesman at an imaginary ""Phone Mart,"" he just wanted to make people laugh - and vent frustration from his job selling mobile gear at a Best Buy in Independence, Mo. Maupin posted the video on June 24, 2010. On July 2, 2010, Best Buy told Maupin that the videos disparaged the company and some products it sells. They asked him to take down the videos; he removed the two that mentioned Best Buy, leaving up the EVO-vs.-iPhone parodies. Maupin was suspended, and a store manager told him he would probably lose his job. Best Buy's negative reaction to a viral video created by an employee may help jump-start the cartoon maker's graphic arts career."
  Bob Iger, the CEO of Walt Disney, wants to acquire social games and other online services that come with established customers and talented creators - and can help sell Disney's famous brands. Since paying $350 million for the kids' social network Club Penguin, Disney has purchased Wideload Games, whose founder helped create Microsoft's hit Halo franchise. The entertainment giant acquired Tapulous, a publisher of music-related games for Apple's iPhone. On Jul 27, 2010, Disney made its biggest video game bet yet, agreeing to pay $563 million for privately held Playdom, the Mountain View, CA maker of Sorority Life and Mobsters, which are played on Facebook, MySpace, and mobile phones. If Playdom meets performance targets over time, its founders and investors may receive an additional $200 million. Iger says the buy-don't-build approach is what drove some earlier acquisitions.
"  Cities and towns across the country, hungry for better broadband, are trying to grab Google's attention. The Mountain View company said last month it's planning a new Internet service of 1 gigabit per second, or about 20 times faster than the speediest offering from Verizon Communications. Richard Whitt, Google's Washington telecom and media counsel, says the company may spend ""hundreds of millions"" on the effort, which will involve stringing fiber-optic lines into homes in a small number of cities. If American Net service gets faster, people will likely spend more time watching videos or playing games online, providing Google fresh ways to expand its advertising business."
  Amanda Dorsey, a 28-year-old unemployed writer and editor in Florida, is one of about 100,000 people in CrowdFlower's on-demand workforce who have taken pay in virtual rather than real dollars, says CEO Lukas Biewald, who also pays with the real stuff. Virtual cash can be used to buy seeds or weapons to play FarmVille, Mafia Wars, or other popular games on social media sites like Facebook. Players accumulate virtual money by earning points within a game or by converting real dollars into pretend currency. CrowdFlower pays to place help-wanted ads within such games as FarmVille, created by Zynga. People who answer the ads with companies that have online tasks to dole out are then placed by CrowdFlower, which gets compensated by those companies in real, green money. CrowdFlower pays on a per-task basis, at a rate set by the companies that hire it to find workers.
  Akamai Technologies is the leader in the booming business of helping Web sites stream content. Researcher comScore estimates that people watched 35.7 billion online videos in June in the US, up from 19.5 billion a year earlier. Akamai was the best-performing stock in the S&amp;P 500 this year up to Jul 28, climbing 74%. That is when investors did a U-turn, sending Akamai down by 13% over two days. The causes of the drop are Moore's Law -- the number of transistors on a chip doubles every 18 months, making computers cheaper and more powerful over time -- and competition. Paul Sagan, Akamai's CEO, says price wars do not mean commoditization. The most promising area of growth, Sagan says, may be high-definition video, which has just started arriving on PCs.
  On Sep 14, Twitter unveiled a redesign of its home page. The new look displays photos, videos, maps, and other extras in the stream of content. Users raved: A scan of Twitter updates about the redesign revealed mostly glowing comments about the new features. A whole ecosystem of companies has sprung up around the service, which allows its 145 million users to send 140-character messages, or tweets. Although the number of companies building third-party applications has grown large, the vast majority of them still generate little revenue. Twitter's recent moves have outside developers worried that a bigger, better Twitter will mean fewer opportunities for them. One reason for the worry among developers and investors is that Twitter does not do a good enough job of broadcasting its intentions. CEO Evan Williams says the redesigned home page will boost the number of Twitter users, which will be good for its partners.
  It might be called the PlayBook, but the new tablet computer from BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (RIM) is all about business. The device, introduced by co-CEO Mike Lazaridis in San Francisco on Sep 27, will go head-to-head with Apple's iPad. The PlayBook boasts several features the iPad lacks, including front- and rear-facing cameras for teleconferencing and the ability to play online videos made with Adobe's Flash technology. It is also smaller and lighter, and comes with the same security features that made the BlackBerry popular with governments and corporations. RIM has yet to announce prices and says the first version of the device will access the Web from a Wi-Fi hotspot or by wirelessly connecting through a BlackBerry via Bluetooth technology.
  The new Apple TV has been shrunk to a quarter of its former size, the price has been slashed from $229 to $99, and, most important, it no longer includes a hard disk to store video. Apple TV is now built around its ability to use your home Wi-Fi network to stream high-definition movies and shows, photos, and music -- from online sources or your computer -- to your television. Apple TV's 720p-quality video provides a consistently crisp, smooth picture, with none of the stuttering that sometimes mars streamed content. The one blemish was that the device occasionally grossly overstated how long it would take to begin watching a movie after selecting it. Apple TV may turn out to be a Trojan Horse -- a deceptively simple gadget that, once in the home, expands its functionality until it takes control of everything.
  As a senior research scientist with Adobe Systems' Photoshop Group, Todor Georgiev is experimenting with plenoptic lenses. His plenoptic lens is actually an array of thousands of micro-lenses carved into a silicon wafer. With one shutter click, it captures thousands of variations -- different exposures or depths of field, for instance -- of the same image. Working with Andrew Lumsdaine, a computer scientist at Indiana University, he has built specialized software to interpret plenoptic photos and enable after-the-fact alterations. In an online video demonstrating the technology, Georgiev projects a picture of a field with a young girl in the foreground and beehives off in the distance. It is a stepping-stone on the way to Georgiev's goal of designing a camera that can capture all available optical data with a single click of the shutter.
  For more than a decade, a public-service television campaign from the UK's Transport Department has relied on cartoon hedgehogs to teach street safety to kids aged nine to 13, the group of pedestrians most likely to be killed or injured by autos. In 2007, the British government turned to Kati London, a producer at game-design studio Area/Code in New York City. For the UK, London and her team built a game called Code of Everand, which launched in 2009. Everand's 170,000 users play as Pathfinders navigating a dangerous fantasy world. The game is filled with subtle cues to encourage street safety. The government has commissioned an independent evaluation of the game's impact that is due in spring 2011.
  Zynga's latest title, CityVille, is scheduled to begin its rollout at 6 P.M. Pacific on Nov 17. Privately held Zynga helped define online social games, the programs played by hundreds of millions of users with their friends on Facebook and other social networks. With social games on track to become a $2.2 billion industry by 2012, according to ThinkEquity analyst Atul Bagga, and contenders like Walt Disney and Electronic Arts buying their way into the business through acquisitions over the past year, the pressure is on to make CityVille the new addiction for online gamers. CityVille borrows heavily from SimCity, the classic urban simulation game. Users pave roads and lay railroad tracks to create virtual towns; residents are little computer-controlled characters that walk and drive to and fro. The goal is to increase the population of the town by building more and more sophisticated industries: Small shops become retail empires, villages become metropolises.
"  The Logitech Revue, the new Google TV gadget, is a set-top box for those who do not mind stumbling over an occasional ""page not found"" message on their big-screen television or changing channels with a keyboard. The $299 Revue's remote control is a full-sized wireless keyboard. Google TV is a software that provides a single interface to the video universe and locates shows whether they originate with a cable or satellite provider, paid online services, or free sites. Besides the Revue, Google TV is built into a line of Sony TV models and one of its Blu-ray players. The idea behind Google TV is a good one. The problem is that the world of video is a wild and woolly place, and Google TV falls short of being able to tame it."
