  Video producers and would-be stars are pooling their talents and cheap digital cameras to create Wallstrip, a daily show examining top-performing stocks. The timing seems perfect, with pioneering online video series such as Rocketboom and Ask a Ninja drawing hundreds of thousands of viewers and Google Inc. snapping up YouTube for $1.65 billion. Many people are now betting that 2007 will be the year money starts flowing to top indie video creators. what really sets Wallstrip apart is its ambition in the business news arena. Wallstrip creator Howard Lindzon, a small-time hedge fund manager with an eye for Internet startups, is betting that a short, savvy, tongue-in-cheek approach will create a highly profitable niche among twenty- and thirtysomethings turned off by old-school business news. Instead of focusing on price-earnings ratios and the opinions of Wall Street analysts, most episodes of Wallstrip zero in on a single stock that has recently hit its 52-week high.
  Ricky Van Veen is editor-in-chief of CollegeHumor.com, a media play single-mindedly devoted to the (sophomoric) collegiate mind, and he's co-founder of its parent company, Connected Ventures. Last summer, Barry Diller's IAC bought the lion's share of Connected in a deal that valued the company substantially north of $20 million. Despite CollegeHumor's frank raciness, it has helped make ads for its site with some of the biggest brands out there, including Ford and Procter &amp; Gamble. The first ad CollegeHumor made was for a site selling kits enabling consumers to beat drug tests, back around 2001, so the outfit has come a long way. Before its sale, Connected, which also owns clothing company Busted Tees and video-sharing site Vimeo, projected it would gross $10 million in '06.
"  On March 13, Viacom sued YouTube for $1 billion. The Google-owned unit is ""stealing value,"" the complaint alleged, by airing snippets of shows like its Comedy Central hit South Park without paying for the right. Meanwhile, in the other part of Sumner M. Redstone's media empire, we have CBS literally cuddling up to YouTube. If CBS and Viacom have radically different approaches to the world's most popular video service, it's largely because CBS believes it needs YouTube (at least for now) and Viacom believes it doesn't (unless it gets paid). CBS and Viacom both want the same thing: a deal that allows them to leverage YouTube's mass appeal while getting paid. But hammering one out could prove maddeningly difficult. It's no secret that Google/YouTube, despite months of negotiations with a number of parties, has yet to sign a revenue-sharing contract with any major U.S. film or TV studio."
  Give it up for NBC Universal and News Corp., because in late March the two old-media titans made the biggest splash for a nonexistent product since the iPhone. News Corp. and NBC Universal have nothing to show for their ambitious Web video destination site and service (not even a name, so I'll call it NewTube), aside from syndication agreements with Yahoo!, Microsoft's MSN.com, and Time Warner's America Online, along with a fairly detailed business brief. Among other things, NewTube's videos can be embedded on any site, YouTube-style. But unlike YouTube thus far, they'll come with Big Media-approved copyright protection and, at least in some cases, a small share of ad revenues. For media geeks, NewTube (its executives, unsurprisingly, prefer the clunkier handles NewCo or NewSite) is big news. But the venture, expected to launch this summer, is merely one of myriad developments that will remake the world of Web video in the next few months.
  It's Tuesday in Mountain View, Calif., and that means Seth Sternberg, Sandy Jen, and Elaine Wherry have retreated to Fiesta Del Mar to hold their weekly founders' lunch. But this is no ordinary week for the three friends who 21 months ago started Meebo, a new type of instant-messaging service. Just a week from now, on May 15, they're launching a product called Meebo Rooms that could boost them into the big leagues of so-called Web 2.0 companies. With a year or two under their belts, they're trying to move beyond early-adopter audiences and go mainstream. With Meebo Rooms, individuals and media companies create pages around a topic--motorcycling, say, or Bollywood movies. Then visitors can step in to chat and post videos and photos. Like YouTube videos, these rooms also can be posted on other sites and blogs.
  Videos from YouTube and all other streaming media sites on the Web have one big disadvantage: For all but the very tech savvy, it's difficult to download them or take them with you on the road. RealNetworks has the best solution so far. The latest version of RealPlayer, which will be available for free download by the end of June, lets you record any streaming video available on the Web that is not copy-protected and save it for offline viewing. You can even download some of the content to many handheld devices, although this is harder than it ought to be.
  Over the past year, the telecom industry has roared back to life. Credit a steady rise in appetite for broadband Internet connections, which enable easy consumption of watch-my-cat video clips, iPod music files, and such Web-inspired services as free Internet phoning. Indeed, this year broadband adoption among U.S. adults is expected to cross the important threshold of 50%. Capital spending is on the rise as companies invest to build high-speed networks. Private equity players are placing enormous bets on the industry, such as the $8.2 billion that Silver Lake Partners and the Texas Pacific Group agreed to pay for networking gearmaker Avaya on June 5. And the glut in broadband communications capacity is all but gone. About half of the Internet's transmission capacity was going unused in 2002. Today that pipeline has almost doubled in size, and yet the unused portion is down to about 30%. As a result, the price that companies pay for bandwidth in some parts of the U.S. is on the rise after six years of declines.
  As Disney prepares for the August TV debut of High School Musical 2, that other kiddie music juggernaut, Kidz Bop, is pushing beyond its CD genre. Razor &amp; Tie is expanding the brand. Kidz Bop's recently redesigned Web site emphasizes music videos, many made by 6-to-12-year-olds, who upload directly a la YouTube. Traffic quadrupled during the new site's first two weeks, when there were more than 1.3 million video-clip streamings by 400,000 unique users.
  The Archos 605 Wi-Fi video player, on sale Sep 1, 2007, is reviewed. People tend to associate Archos with portable media players, but this silver-and-white model also surfs the Web, downloads content, and docks with a TV. Even novices should find it relatively easy to operate, thanks to intuitive icons on a high-quality 4.3-inch touch screen. The Archos Content Portal, represented by one of those icons, lets you download movies and TV shows from CinemaNow. There's also a music download service called BurnLounge and a link to YouTube, and Archos may announce several other content partnerships. On all models there's a built-in Web browser with Adobe Flash Player support, which improves the hunt for Web content.
  In an echo of the tech bubble, once-iconic Internet analysts Henry Blodget and Mary Meeker are battling it out again over stock valuations. But this little rivalry involves estimates of how much Google can make by overlaying ads on videos viewed at its popular YouTube site.
  Forget the powerful companies that are pouring money into new ways to bring TV into the Internet Age. Some video gamers have figured out their own solution. Using features pre-installed in their game consoles, they call up software from Orb Networks that lets them view Web sites, YouTube videos, or digital music collections on big-screen TVs. Don't try this at home if you aren't a real techie. Orb's controls and setup are plenty complicated.
"  About a month ago, Google caused barely a ripple when it unveiled technology to filter out copyright violations on its YouTube video Web site. After all, YouTube had been under constant fire from big media companies for hosting unauthorized clips. But now a move by AT&amp;T to adopt similar technology across its entire broadband network is raising the hackles of critics. The phone company is in talks with NBC Universal and Walt Disney about embedding a ""content-recognition"" system made by tiny Vobile Inc right into AT&amp;T's Internet transmission apparatus. The technology would be used to guard against illegal distribution of those companies' shows and films. Critics fear that by assigning a phone carrier a gatekeeper role over a broad portion of the Internet--some experts say half of US Net traffic may touch AT&amp;T's network--the system would threaten users' privacy, freedom of speech, and equal access."
"  Fidelity Investments' Web site features a new educational effort, dubbed the Trading Knowledge Center. The advice is solid, the graphics cutting-edge, and the terrific-looking video tutorials deliver sometimes arcane material in easy-to-digest pieces. Each module contains links to well-produced short videos, typically three to four minutes in length. Narrated by professional actors and market experts, they're a cut above most video on the Internet. The advice and explanations run the gamut from the incredibly basic (""options are contracts between a buyer and a seller"") to the nitty-gritty of complex trading strategies (""the classic whipsaw scenario in which a short, sharp price reversal stops you out"")."
  It's the year 2014, and Googlezon, a fearsomely powerful combination of search engine Google Inc. and online store Amazon.com Inc., has crushed traditional media to bits. Taking its place is the computer-generated Evolving Personalized Information Construct--an online package of news, entertainment, blogs, and services drawn from all the world's up-to-the-minute knowledge and customized to match your preferences. And it's all collected, packaged, and controlled by Googlezon. This is the future according to EPIC 2014, a faux documentary posted to the Web in late 2004 by young journalists Matt Thompson and Robin Sloan. Thanks to their slightly tongue-in-cheek, Twilight Zone-inspired tone, the short video drew as many chuckles as gasps of dismay from the legions of mainstream media types and Web digerati who viewed it. Today, nobody's laughing. Here it is only 2007, and already EPIC 2014's picture of an online landscape dominated by one ravenous, all-knowing corporation looks to many people like--well, a lot like Google. All by itself. As the place nearly 400 million people each month start on the Internet, it's the No. 1 gateway to the Net's vast commercial potential.
  Imagine a bookstore that sells only works published by Random House. If you want a HarperCollins title, you have to go to the store down the street. In this world, you're permitted to read Penguin books either on the train or lying in bed, but Vintage books can only be read on the couch. It's absurd--but no more so than the world of video downloads as they exist today. The problem is that the quickly growing stock of movies and shows available for download is scattered among an assortment of stores including Movielink, CinemaNow, Google Video, and Amazon.com Unbox, as well as Apple's iTunes Store. And while there's a lot of overlap, there's also a significant amount of content exclusive to one or another service. This has happened because the digital-download business isn't like any other sort of retailing. It's no wonder none of these download services has developed any real traction in the market.
  Startup download service Jaman aims to become an online film festival for world movies and the works of independent filmmakers - the sort that don't have distribution deals with Miramax Film or Fox Searchlight Pictures. Outside of Jaman, the movies available for download today are mostly a subset of the limited offerings at your local Blockbuster, dominated by films that have recently finished their theatrical runs, box-office hits of the last few years, direct-to-video flops, and just a smattering of classics. Movielink's download service offers fewer than 150 of the thousands of movies made before 1970, plus a shamefully underpowered roster of 40 foreign films. Like nearly all movie download services, Jaman requires its own software player, which is available for both Windows and Mac OS X. The image quality is very good. Jaman's business model is also a step up from other services. As befits a Web startup, Jaman offers an assortment of social networking features.
  The ease of showing video online has led to a deluge of video from nonmedia types everywhere. This year Ford Models began cranking out all manner of Web videos. It's far too early to know if this ends up a short-lived sideline for the 60-year-old modeling agency or becomes another way to make decent money off its picturesque assets, but it's not crazy to think that this nonmedia company may figure out new ways to make Web video work. For one thing, models require little persuading to take star turns on film. Production quality, as you might imagine, is high: Modeling agencies know from flattering angles and lighting. Ford has cut ad-sharing deals with Web partners, and the models in the videos get around 30% of Ford's net.
  Since the beginning of April Comcast, which generates most of its $25 billion a year in revenues by delivering TV over cable, has signed a flurry of deals designed to allow it to do battle with the likes of Yahoo!, MSN, and others that intend to stream TV shows to folks' computers. It struck deals with CBS, Fox, and NBC to deliver their TV shows through Comcast's soon-to-be-launched Fancast online site. It plunked down tens of millions of dollars to buy Fandango, with a notion to turn the online ticketing site into a guide to TV shows available online. For Comcast, this sure looks like a change in strategy. Three years ago it was so hungry to add programming muscle that it was willing to pony up $54 billion to buy Disney. Now it seems desperate to join the Internet party and not be left out of the ad boom surrounding online video. Little wonder: After cable stocks' bullish run last year, investors are more nervous about the industry's prospects these days. Comcast shares are down about $3, to 27, from this year's high.
  By the end of May, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) will report to its member studios the results of tests of a dozen computerized video-fingerprinting systems. This technology is designed to identify pirated movies wherever they exist on the Internet, automating a job that is now done by staffers who look for infringing clips with their own eyes. Fingerprinting systems could be a crucial link in the battle to control video content on the Net.
"  The new Web video service Joost is barely in beta, but it's already subject to inhuman amounts of hype. It's not hard to see why. The service (say ""juiced"") is the next project of Janus Friis and Niklas Zennstrom, founders of Net phone service Skype. Its investors include Viacom and CBS. The company has just raised $45 million. On a good monitor, its satisfyingly full-screen playback looks gorgeous. Joost's executives singlemindedly stress devotion to full-length programs and their respect for copyrights."
  Since mid-April CBS has inked partnerships with two dozen partners--from Bebo to Veoh--to syndicate its programming online. CBS also passed on taking an equity stake in the still-unnamed Web-video site that NBC Universal and News Corp. are assembling, because that would mean exclusively syndicating shows with the venture. That stake might be huge down the road, concedes CBS CEO Leslie Moonves. But he says the point of CBS's current moves is not to have one big property with an equity upside 10 years from now. All the Web wisdom in the world won't help CBS if the hits dry up. But CBS's moves are coherent philosophically, and about as in tune with how people behave online as one may expect a traditional company to be. Whether its competitors are teeny or titans, CBS can still walk tall.
  In the Web world, widgets are modules of software that people can drag and drop onto the personal page of their social network or onto a blog. There, widgets typically look like a little window or box, packing a bit of the functionality that you would get with a stand-alone Web site or software package. Widgets also can be storefront windows for selling products and services or digital billoards to which customized ads can be affixed. The land grab comes from the sudden realization by software developers, media companies, and retailers that by widgetizing their programs, news snippets, video clips, and products, they can stake out some prime Web real estate. People are increasingly spending their time with like-minded souls at blogs, online communities, and social networking sites. . In a sense, creating widgets is like unleashing a cloud of benign viruses. They carry your storefront or video clip or ad to anyone's Web page or profile. And those who like them can share them with thousands of people. They multiply, and as they do, they alter the very geography of the Web. That leads some technologists to conclude that these humble bits of code - or applications, as widgets are also known - could turbocharge a third phase in the Internet's development. The scramble began on May 24, when Facebook Inc. announced it would crack open its site and hand over significant economic and distribution power to widget developers. Major companies from media, publishing, technology, communications, entertainment, and retail are jumping on the widget bandwagon. Google Inc., the most powerful force on the Web today, is taking widgets seriously. The e-commerce implications are potentially huge. Instead of simply building a destination site where people come to shop, sellers can use widgets to bring the store to the buyers.
  For the last several years, Finnish handset giant Nokia has been on a furious shopping spree. It spent $60 million on a rival to Apple iTunes called Loudeye, the largest independent music distributor on the Net, and followed that up by acquiring navigation software maker gate5 and media-sharing site Twango. Now it's clear what the buying binge was all about. At an Aug 29, 2007 press conference, Nokia unveiled plans to launch a slew of services for mobile users, starting later this year in Europe and Asia. The scheme includes an online music store aimed at the 200 million music-capable Nokia mobile phones already on the market, an interactive multiplayer game service, and a new venue for Nokia handset users to swap photos, videos, and music. It's the most ambitious bid by a phonemaker to spin profits out of content and services.
  There's a reason why Amazon hasn't done much to sell books, movies, or music in digital form, even after acquiring Paris-based Mobipocket in 2005 and unveiling its internally built Unbox movie-download service in 2006. These ventures are still more an investment in the future than a near-term profit engine. Amazon's toe-in-the-water approach may seem odd, considering how it helped pioneer online shopping in the mid-1990s. You might think that fulfilling orders for digital media would be more efficient than pulling CDs off shelves, boxing them, and handing them over to UPS for delivery. But as long as digital music and e-books come with heavy restrictions on how and where consumers can use them, the market will be limited and rights holders will have the power to shake down sellers. For Amazon, there's still much more money to be made shipping real stuff.
  Having shifted much of their advertising budgets from print to online, big consumer-brand companies are increasingly attaching ads to selected words on newspaper and other media Web sites. So-called in-text advertising, purchased by companies such as Ford, Intel, and Microsoft, pops up in small windows when a reader moves a cursor over highlighted, double-underlined words in a story. Pausing over a link produces a bubble containing written pitches, voiceover, or even video. This year the Web sites of several Gannett newspapers, including The Indianapolis Star, The Arizona Republic, and the Reno Gazette-Journal, began using in-text ads. New York City-based Vibrant Media, one of the leading firms that specializes in selling in-text advertising, has nearly doubled the number of publishers showing its ads in the past year. The ongoing shift of ad dollars from print and TV to the Web has increased pressure on publishers to try unconventional formats.
  Online video sites are now scaling back their focus on user-generated clips. What they want now is professionally produced programming. More than 57% of U.S. Internet users say they have watched or downloaded online videos, according to a July study by the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project. But they're shunning home videos in favor of news and movie trailers, followed by comedy bits, music videos, and television shows, according to a study by Burst Media. Some advertisers will pay $60-plus per 1,000 views to place their ads inside professional video content, says Suranga Chandratillake of blinkx. Ads on user-generated videos, on the other hand, go for as little as $7 per 1,000 views, says Chandratillake. Meanwhile, Hollywood is flooding the Web with slick new shows, produced specifically for the Net.
