Snapchat makes things a lot tougher. Armstrong has followers there, too, but he doesn't know exactly how many. And because of the way the service works, it's hard for him to track how many people watch the sponsored messages he sprinkles into his posts. To capture the audience for a recent video for Toyota Motor Co, he had to set an alarm on his iPhone for 23 hours and 59 minutes after the post to remind him to take a screen shot of the number of viewers. He was cutting it close: Like most Snapchat posts, the video disappeared at the 24-hour mark, taking his proof with it. The company doesn't send executives to VidCon, the influencer conference in Anaheim, CA, where Instagram and its corporate parent, Facebook Inc, have a heavy presence. There's no special Snapchat team catering to the pitchmen and no easy way for the influencers to tell how many views they're getting, making it less obvious why the Lexuses of the world should pay them.
  In 2012, Google researchers found a whimsical way to show off the power of the company's artificial intelligence (AI) technology: They trained computers to recognize cats in YouTube videos. The project took years to pull off and required 16,000 computer processors to analyze 10 million images. That type of AI, known as deep learning, now powers Amazon.com's smart speaker Echo and Tesla's self-driving cars. While such software can seem magical, it still typically requires thousands of computers to spend months scanning millions of data points. Ben Vigoda, an MIT-trained computer scientist (and nephew of late actor Abe Vigoda), says he can cut out most of the grunt work and make AI projects doable for businesses without Google-level resources.
"  For years, YouTube has served up almost every imaginable kind of video. The site's top trending attractions on a recent afternoon included clips of a gymnasium roof collapsing in the Czech Republic, a colossal alligator lumbering across a footpath in Florida, some North Korean refugees digging into American barbecue for the first time, and a guy demonstrating how to wash a car with a baby. Now, a dozen years after its creation and about a decade after its absorption into Google Inc, YouTube is on the verge of adding yet one more genre -- a category of programming that has long eluded it. YouTube is finally getting regular television. Subscribers will be able to watch YouTube television on smartphones, tablets, laptop computers - pretty much however they want. The mobile apps are designed to easily ""cast"" from smartphones to larger screens, perhaps even -- for older people -- actual television sets. Throughout the app, native YouTube content will be layered in alongside the network shows."
When Facebook Inc wants to try something new, one of its first calls is to CNN. It was a key partner when Facebook introduced its news-reading app, Paper, in 2014. When the social network shuttered Paper soon after, transmogrifying it into a series of fast-loading News Feed stories called Instant Articles, CNN remained on board. And last year, CNN was one of the few parties to which it paid a nominal fee to produce clips of, say, election results being projected on the Empire State Building. But strain is showing in the relationship. Facebook's latest pitch to publishers such as CNN is for them to provide a regular stream of television-quality, edited, original videos that will give Mark Zuckerberg's company a chance to compete with YouTube and siphon some of the $70 billion pouring into television ads each year. In exchange, the publishers can share some Of the revenue for ads that roll in the middle of the videos. Facebook will control all the ad sales.
As a former tour manager for Bob Dylan and The Band, Jonathan Taplin isn't your typical academic. Lately, though, he's been busy writing somber tomes about market shares, monopolies, and online platforms. His conclusion: Amazon.com, Facebook, and Google have become too big and too powerful and, if not stopped, may need to be broken up. Taplin, 70, author of Move Fast and Break Things: How Facebook, Google, and Amazon Cornered Culture and Undermined Democracy, knows digital media, having run the Annenberg Innovation Lab at the University of Southern California. Ten years before YouTube, he founded one of the first video-on-demand streaming services. He also knows media M&amp;A as a former Merrill Lynch investment banker in the 1980s. He says Google is as close to a monopoly as the Bell telephone system was in 1956. Taplin suggests that authorities look to 1956, when the US forced Bell Labs to license its patents to all corners. The result
"One evening in June 2016, Isaac Larian lay in bed at his Malibu, CA, home, unable to sleep. So the CEO of the world's largest private toy company, MGA Entertainment Inc, did what any insomniac toy CEO would do to unwind: He watched viral videos of kids unboxing toys on YouTube. Videos by youthful toy reviewers can get millions of views, and watching toys being freed from their packaging has become must-see television for many fans. This year, MGA's newest product, the L.O.L. Big Surprise has landed at the top of many 2017 best toy lists. It sold out at both Toys ""R"" Us and Amazon.com on the first day it went on sale -- again, without a single television spot. To Larian, whose company created such hits as Bratz and Lalaloopsy dolls, the success validates his decision several years ago to shift away from running spots during kids' television and cable programming and instead depend mainly on getting MGA's products into the hands of kid influencers on YouTube."
"""Evil unicorns"" aren't billion-dollar startups gone bad. The term, coined by Google engineers, refers to webpages full of lies about an obscure subject. When there's little other information about the subject online, the lie-stuffed pages get pushed to the top of search results, because the search engine doesn't have much else to show. That's what happened in October, after the mass shooting in Las Vegas that killed 58 people and injured more than 500. For hours, Google searches about the massacre prominently displayed posts coordinated to falsely identify a Democratic donor critical of Donald Trump as the shooter. Something similar happened in November after the mass shooting in Sutherland Springs, TX. YouTube videos and tweets mislabeled the shooter as ""antifa,"" an antifascist protester often willing to use violence. While Google is accustomed to battling spammers and click-bait publishers to maintain the integrity of its search results, it's done less to fight back against the deliberate poisoning of its real-time news and video catalogs."
In the past 25 years the cost of broadcast rights for English Premier League soccer has surged thirty-fold as deep-pocketed media companies have grown to depend on live sports to win subscribers and keep them from defecting to online rivals. Next year an even richer bunch -- those same Internet giants that are wooing television viewers -- will likely show up at rights auctions, pushing prices even higher. Live sports attracts a passionate fan base, Greg Hart, video chief at Amazon.com Inc, said in August after signing a deal to offer Association of Tennis Professionals matches on Prime Video.
