  The latest Net phenomenon is video blogs, or what some folks call vlogs. Thousands of ordinary people have begun posting a cornucopia of video fare online, from self-indulgent art clips and earnest citizen journalism to sly political commentary. Experimentation is the rule, and eccentrics outnumber serious practitioners. But amid the chaos, glimpses of a commercial future are starting to emerge, including a revival of online video distribution, using vlogs to sell ads, and corporate sites designed to reach out to customers and suppliers. Online video had a brief heyday during the late 1990s, with indie-flick sites with the aim of developing online movie distribution. Those dreams mostly ended with the popping of the Net bubble. But thanks to the blog craze and the proliferation of high-speed broadband, new pioneers are emerging. The development is due in large part to the spread of better distribution technology.
  While broadcast TV audiences dwindle and moviegoing stagnates, gaming is emerging as the newest and perhaps strongest pillar of the media world. So it's no surprise film studios, media giants, game makers, and Japanese electronics companies are all battling to win the Game Wars. When Electronic Arts Inc spent $800 million to lock up ESPN content such as X-Game sports competition for use in games for the next 15 years, it was just the latest jolt to an industry in which megadeals have become as commonplace as laser-toting ogres. Next came the news that Microsoft Corp plans to produce the movie version of its Halo megahit video games, which have raked in $600 million since 2001, rather than handing the job to a studio. Gaming is exploding in all directions - going online, mobile, and global. On Web sites such as Microsoft's Xbox Live, 1.4 million hard-core gamers match up their reflexes in multiplayer shoot-'em-up games for bragging rights in cyberspace. Even the tiny screen is grabbing attention, as cell-phone titles take gaming anytime, anywhere. By 2008, the markets for online and mobile-phone gaming are expected to top $15 billion and $13 billion, respectively.
  The mad land grabs in media and entertainment orchestrated by larger-than-life founders have run their course. In this twilight of the moguls, a new, younger generation of executives is waiting in the wings to inherit an industry in upheaval. Today's executives have to manage in three dimensions -- constantly imagining their books, magazines, movies, shows, and games in an array of digital forms. Back in the fall of 2000, when Major League Baseball came calling, Robert A. Bowman was faced with adapting the 120-year-old game for today's fans. As CEO of Major League Baseball Advanced Media LP, the Wharton MBA decided early on to deliver online and digital services directly to fans, without an intermediary such as Yahoo. MLB.com, with revenues of about $125 million last year, sells 30 services, from live video and audio of full games to fantasy baseball video-games, all available on the Net and on cell phones. No media company is immune to the lesson learned by the loss of 30% of music sales in recent years through illegal file-sharing and CD burning. So Michele Anthony, 48, executive vice-president at Sony BMG Music Entertainment, stumps on college campuses, hoping to steer students away from stealing music. As executive vice-president for business development and digital media at NBC Universal, R. Brandon Burgess is the front-line guy for new revenue streams. Burgess helped in the rollout last year of NBC Mobile, which offers cell-phone users two-minute-long video news broadcasts.
  In the marketing departments of some of the world's biggest advertisers, online video represents a golden opportunity to move beyond the 30-second spots that TV viewers so often zap or ignore. These advertisers view online video as a laboratory for new ways to connect with customers. And they're busy figuring out ways to use the Internet to transform the most powerful advertising tool in history: television. The internet has been promising this video invasion for a decade. But the growth of broadband connections is finally bringing video into the mainstream. For now, the trend is to use video ads online as extensions of TV campaigns. In this new ad world, it's often better to whisper the brand than to shout it. The key is to create buzz and to spread from friend to friend across the Net.
  These are the early days of video blogging. Most of the postings on the Web are rough and tedious - little more than home movies. But the success of Rocketboom and a few sites like it underscore the potential of video blogs. Cheaper video recorders mean just about anyone can make videos, while the spread of speedy Net service means almost anybody can watch clips posted online. The result? The Internet is coming alive with a mix of video, from the polished parody of Rocketboom to the raw interviews of reporters. As these videos flow into the living room, they will reshape what we think of as television. Amanda Congdon and Andrew Michael Baron have no doubt their quirky show is the future. So while Rocketboom shows are lighthearted, the two are dead serious about their work.
  Suddenly, broadband is opening the floodgates for a new kind of TV show -- only not on TV but online. In just the past few months some of the biggest TV names have announced new broadband channels, from MTV Networks to Comedy Central to ABC News. If you thought the 400 cable channels focusing on everything from golf to anime were already cutting niches thin, broadband TV is going a step further. It has the makings of another Internet gold rush. With improved speeds and video quality online, not to mention broadband's growing reach (estimated conservatively to be in 40 million U.S. homes by yearend), TV executives are rushing to connect with younger audiences that are less and less riveted to traditional TV. Getting a foothold on the Internet, especially if it creates buzz, is also a way to recapture ad dollars that have migrated away from the 30-second TV spot. On the Web, ads can be positioned strategically next to programming and measured with greater accuracy.
  As much as one terabyte of data is added to the Net each day, researchers say. That's the equivalent of 50,000 short videos, 250 million magazine stories, or 500 million blog entries. Is there any way to sort through it all to find what you truly want? One answer may be found at a little-known San Francisco startup called digg. Founded by Jay Adelson and Kevin Rose, the company's Web site pulls together articles, links, and other info, largely about the tech industry. What's unusual is the method by which content is organized. The company relies on its 80,000 members to unearth the most interesting goodies on the Net each day. It's an early example of the collective strength of online crowds -- and hints at how the sea of online video, podcasts, and blog entries could be organized in the future.
  Is there redemption in cyberspace? That's the question for Brad Greenspan, a 32-year-old entrepreneur who started his first business from his dorm room at the University of California at Los Angeles and helped launch one of the Internet's biggest hits, the wildly popular social networking site MySpace.com, when he invested in it in 2003. Today he's backing what he bets will be the Next Big Thing: a social network site called Vidilife that is using online videos to lure Net surfers, a sort of MySpace for the video crowd. Traffic has been promising so far: 220,000 unique users in October, six weeks after launch in September, according to Internet ratings agency comScore Media Metrix. Vidilife is more than just a business move for Greenspan; he needs it to help restore his street cred as a Net mogul. That's because he never got to celebrate MySpace's huge success. He was forced from the company he founded.
