  As competitive gaming grows more popular, the League of Legends Championship Series (LCS) is setting the pace. More than 330 million people watched some part of the league's four-week world championships last fall through channels like YouTube and gaming-video site Twitch. Bigger audiences and prizes are drawing a wave of outside investment, setting up a showdown between the league's past and its future. Since the fall, the money coming from outsiders, including veterans of the US pro sports industry, has begun to professionalize the league in ways big and small. The changes have rankled team owners who don't have access to that kind of cash, but the new money is also forcing tough conversations about how to run a pro league in which many players are teens. The arrival, of mainstream investors should make the industry seem safer to big advertisers, says Steve Arhancet, co-owner of the LCS squad Team Liquid, adding that he's unconcerned by the prospect of new money changing the league.
  Lilly Singh, a 27-year-old YouTube personality, has delighted teenagers for six years from the comfort of her couch. With almost 8 million subscribers following Singh's main channel for free, YouTube decided to invest in the Internet star when it heard she was making a documentary, A Trip to Unicorn Island. Google, which bought the video-sharing Web site in 2006 for $1.65 billion, plans to make YouTube more profitable by creating a revenue stream with Red. Like Netflix and Amazon.com, Google is offering original programs, but instead of Hollywood talent, Red is banking on the star power of homegrown personalities such as Singh to persuade fans to sign up.
  Verizon Communications once aspired to be the Comcast of mobile, streaming movies and television shows to its 107 million monthly subscribers. Now it wants to be YouTube, feeding short video clips to millennials, who spend more hours each day glued to the tiny screens of their phones than they spend sitting in front of a television. Verizon's Go90, named after people's tendency to flip their phone sideways to watch movies and videos, premiered as an app for Apple and Android phones in October and is avail able to customers of other carriers. In a move that may tip the playing field, Verizon announced in early February that data usage on Go90 won't count toward customers' caps. Using the trove of information it has collected on its wireless subscribers, including age, gender, general interests, and location, Verizon says it can help marketers flash their ads to the right people at the right time.
  Ryder Carroll is a bike-sharing, glasses-wearing product designer from Brooklyn, NY. Early in March, they met in a crowded coffee shop. No one recognized the 35-year-old, even though he's a cult Internet celebrity: Carroll invented the Bullet Journal system, a method for note-taking and day planning that people who love paper and pens swear by. Carroll's How to Bullet Journal instructional videos have been viewed more than 2 million times on YouTube. Devotees make their own videos and post journal photos to Instagram, where a search for #bulletjournal returns more than 66,000 results. Carroll didn't consider promoting his method -- or even naming it -- until he offered help to a co-worker overwhelmed by planning her wedding.
  Suddenly, it seems, the whole world is live-streaming. Thanks to Facebook, Google (YouTube), Amazon.com (Twitch), and Twitter (Periscope), anyone even vaguely interested in broadcasting live video online can figure out how to do it. The sales pitches from these companies are simple: stream first, ask questions later. And as with the heyday of blogging a decade ago, the live-streaming gold rush means there's money for anyone selling shovels. In this case, that translates to the technical hardware, software, and know-how needed to make amateur live video look more professional. One of the early leaders in this growing subset of America's online video ad market is the aptly named Livestream, a Brooklyn, NY, startup that's raised $17 million since its 2007 founding.
  Major league sports teams are recruiting a new kind of player: one who can score with a joystick. In the past two months, Manchester City and West Ham United, two of the top English Premier League soccer teams, have signed professional video gamers to represent the clubs when playing FIFA, a hugely popular Electronic Arts soccer video game. E-sports is now a $500 million industry, according to Deloitte, with a mostly millennial audience. Not long ago, those folks would have been fans of real-life sports; now they may not even subscribe to cable. Instead, they're more likely to interact online through fantasy sports or video games. Signing video players is an extension of the move over the past few years to professionalize e-sports.
  Big media distributors such as AT&amp;T, which owns DirecTV and delivers movies and television shows to 100 million subscribers of its wireless, Internet, and video services, have argued for years over which can best withstand the disruption brought about by online services like Netflix: Content providers? Or cable and satellite operators? With his surprise $85 billion takeover bid for Time Warner, Randall Stephenson, AT&amp;T's CEO, is betting that the companies that will thrive in a world of streaming and smartphones must be both. The future of mobile is video, and the future of video is mobile, Stephenson said on October 22 after announcing the deal. Already, AT&amp;T and Time Warner have separately been working to make it easier for consumers to watch more movies and television shows online. Some analysts are skeptical of AT&amp;T's rationale, pointing to Time Warner's disastrous merger with America Online in 2000.
  When NBC and Fox created Hulu 10 years ago, they offered customers something they'd never had before: last night's television shows available over the Internet for free. It presaged the future of television -- online and on-demand, no VCR or DVR required. By the time Mike Hopkins took over as Hulu's CEO in 2013, that early advantage had been mostly squandered. Netflix was laying the groundwork for a global television network, and Amazon.com was about to release a slate of video programs. Now Hopkins hopes his company -- owned by Comcast, 21st Century Fox, Walt Disney, and Time Warner -- can again lead the industry by becoming the first streaming service to couple live television with a wide library of on-demand programs that goes beyond what traditional cable offers.
