"  According to Dave Morgan, founder of ad network Tacoda, the most successful ad format for Web video sites has been display ads that run near video clips. Like all big online players, Google has invested serious time and dollars (the $3.1 billion DoubleClick deal, for instance) in beefing up its display-ad capabilities. YouTubers point out that most of their key ad formats - including the ""overlay"" format, which places an ad over a small portion of a video without interrupting it - have been available only since August. At ad agencies, Web video ads can be subject to tug-of-wars and turf battles between TV buyers and digital buyers. YouTube is holding contests in which users upload videos to a sponsor's page and thus, ideally, generate heat and page views for ad messages."
  The latest tech darling has arrived, and it goes by the name of FriendFeed. Silicon Valley is buzzing about the seven-month-old startup, which offers a promising if somewhat messy new Internet service. Part of the interest comes from the blue-ribbon pedigrees of its founders, including Google alums Paul Buchheit and Bret Taylor, who honchoed Gmail and Google Maps. But just as much of the hullabaloo stems from how the founders are addressing a growing issue online: the balkanization of the Web. People are socializing on networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace and sharing pictures and videos on Web sites including Flickr and YouTube. But all these activities have been walled off from one another, like separate digital worlds. To keep track of friends and colleagues, you have to log in and out of different services constantly. FriendFeed is one of the first major efforts to break down these walls. With the startup's service, subscribers can pull together on one Web page everything their friends and colleagues are doing on more than 30 Web sites.
  No fewer than six manufacturers of high-definition televisions, including Hewlett-Packard, Panasonic, Sony, and Samsung, are introducing sets this year that stay permanently connected to your home broadband network and fetch everything from sports scores and weather to videos, movies, and photos you've stored online. With all this content finally coming to the big screen in the living room, why ever leave home? Blockbuster still has a ton of movie offerings that aren't available anywhere on the Net. And people who want everything on one screen can use any number of stand-alone devices, such as Apple TV, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. Plug one of these, or almost any laptop, into an ordinary digital TV and you'll be able to browse YouTube or access movie stores. The difference is, the new TV sets make the process easier and cheaper.
  Nearly a year ago, NBC Universal and News Corp. launched a video site called Hulu. The Web cognoscenti scoffed at two Old Media dinosaurs taking on YouTube. But the derision has abated of late. Thanks to a huge library, Hulu is attracting millions of viewers and signing up advertisers like Bank of America, Best Buy, and Nissan. In effect, NBCU and News Corp. gambled that people are willing to watch full-length TV shows and movies online. In the Age of YouTube, that's a contrarian position. The Web video king has become ubiquitous with clips rarely more than five minutes long. YIn effect, NBCU and News Corp. gambled that people are willing to watch full-length TV shows and movies online. In the Age of YouTube, that's a contrarian position. The Web video king has become ubiquitous with clips rarely more than five minutes long. Hulu did something else unusual. Rather than forcing people to come to its site, it cut deals with portals like AOL, Comcast, MSN, and Yahoo! to show Hulu-branded video on their sites.
  MTV Networks (MTVN) operates more than 5,000 mobile, console, and online games and virtual worlds - many of them based on TV shows such as MTV's The Real World and Nickelodeon's SpongeBob SquarePants. MTVN has even cut a deal to develop new titles with Hollywood uber-producer Jerry Bruckheimer of CSI and Armaggedon fame. And this isn't just about kids. The network is keen to hook the growing ranks of so-called casual gamers, including women old enough to have a couple of teenagers in the house. Total time spent gaming online hit 11.4 billion minutes in December, up 27% over the previous year, according to Web-traffic tracker comScore. Only e-mail and shopping keep people online longer nowadays. MTVN started to ratchet up its game strategy three years ago with a series of acquisitions. The company has plowed $800 million into properties that appeal to a range of ages. MTVN doesn't break out its gaming ad revenues but says it has signed up dozens of advertisers. MTVN has been putting product placements in its TV shows for years. Now it's doing the same thing online.
"  Frustrated by the usual fix-it options - obediently waiting on hold with Bangalore, gamely chatting online with a scripted robot - more consumers are rebelling against company-prescribed service channels. After getting nowhere with the call center, these consumer vigilantes are sending ""e-mail carpet bombs"" to the C-suite, cc-ing the top layer of management with their complaints. When all else fails, a plucky few are going straight to the top after uncovering direct numbers to executive customer-service teams not easily found by mere mortals. And of course, they're filling up the Web with blogs and videos, leaving behind venom-spewed tales of woe. Behind the guerrilla tactics is a growing disconnect between the experience companies promise and customers' perceptions of what they actually get. Consumers already pushed to the brink by evaporating home equity, job insecurity, and rising prices are more apt to snap when hit with long hold times and impenetrable phone trees. A swell of corporate distrust - exacerbated by high executive pay, accounting lapses, and the offshoring of jobs - has people feeling more at odds with companies than ever before. Technology is aiding the uprising, empowering consumers to do much more to make themselves heard. Add a powerful media voice and a provocative site title to a blog, and it can have extraordinary impact. The biggest challenges in customer service may be dealing with consumers who are hard to mollify. For some, the sting of a bad experience cuts so deep that it transforms them from a merely upset customer into an activist no longer just looking for a refund. A recent study by market research firm Yankelovich finds that more than half of American adults think they know more about the products and services they shop for than the people helping them in the stores."
  It's April, and Microsoft's top U. S. salesman for online advertising, Keith Lorizio, is visiting clients in New York City. In a midtown office tower, he sits down with Nicholas Utton, the gregarious chief marketing officer at online broker E*Trade. Utton is plenty impressed with Microsoft's technology, and he's a big advertiser on the company's MSN Money site. But when it comes to Internet search sites, the largest and most lucrative advertising market online, Utton makes it clear that Microsoft is, as he sees it, way behind front-runner Google. They're not getting much of our search dollars, he says. Lorizio's pitch just got even tougher. On May 3, Microsoft CEO Steven A. Ballmer withdrew his offer for Web giant Yahoo!, the No. 2 power in online ads, after the two sides failed to agree on a price. Ballmer had said that the proposed acquisition, which valued Yahoo at $47.5 billion, was the best way for Microsoft to gain the scale necessary to compete against Google for online advertising dollars. Now, after three months of talks, it looks as though Microsoft and Yahoo will be left trying to catch Google on their own, at least for now. It may be impossible to catch Google in search advertising. But Microsoft has a fighting chance on several other fronts. Perhaps most important is display advertising, the colorful banner and video ads that run at the top or along the side of Web pages.
