  All Chad Hurley and Steve Chen wanted to do was share some videos from a dinner party with a half-dozen friends in San Francisco. It was January, 2005, and they couldn't figure out a good solution. Sending the clips around by e-mail was a bust: The e-mails kept getting rejected because they were so big. Posting the videos online was a headache, too. So last February the two buddies got to work in Hurley's garage, determined to design something simpler. What they came up with is a Web site, now called YouTube, that has become an Internet phenomenon. In 11 months the site has become one of the most popular on the Net. It shows 30 million videos a day and drew 9.1 million people in February, says Web measurement service Nielsen//NetRatings. That makes the upstart one of the biggest providers of videos on the Net, ahead of Yahoo! and Google and just behind Microsoft, according to the Nielsen//NetRatings estimates. The trouble is, the freewheeling approach that has made YouTube a hit could be its downfall. Users have been posting videos that are still under copyright, without any of the required legal approvals.
  YouTube is evolving into a sort of eBay for video: the first place you go to find a clip, but also a place where more folks are itching to get rewarded for supplying it. A growing group of creative types is furiously producing clips, video blogs, and animated shorts with the hopes of making money through advertising or selling DVDs. While YouTube promises huge distribution, the site and its users are just starting to sort out how to apportion the power they've suddenly acquired. Bob Tur's lawsuit shows the fine line that YouTube is walking as it attempts to build its business model. Tur is suing because his videos of the Los Angeles riot and other events were uploaded without his permission. Although lawyers agree that YouTube should be protected by copyright law as long as it responds to content owners' requests to take down their works, it entered uncharted territory when it recently began adding ads next to search results. The law prohibits a site from benefiting financially from infringement, but the company argues that it's protected since it doesn't sell ads against individual videos. Still, the courts haven't set clear boundaries.
"  YouTube's lonelygirl15, also known as Bree, and her best (and only) pal, the schlumpy Daniel, have been starring in videos posted to YouTube since mid-June. But already lonelygirl15's YouTube ""channel"" is the second most subscribed to of all time, and each video elicits thousands of viewer comments. Bree and Daniel are proof that a secret-handshake-styled series of short videos can be a bona fide hit. Alas, the bookish and cute Bree is not real. Or at least not what she purports to be. A hot and near obsessive debate about all this is playing out in video responses posted to YouTube and on countless blogs. Early chatter suggested a few theories: The videos were a corporation's viral marketing campaign; a teaser for an unknown major entertainment property; or something dreamed up by an obscure Christian sect, occultists, or Scientologists. None of this, by the way, affects the genius-in-miniature of the ongoing lonelygirl15 saga, or its triumph as a new form. No soap opera was ever this good."
  YouTube Inc. is the Internet company to beat these days. With all the excitement, it's easy to forget that the video-sharing pioneer's business so far amounts to a whole lot of expenses, not much revenue, and no profits. Because the company is charting a delicate course in how it handles pirated videos, its legal costs could balloon if lawsuits start piling up. Even more important, though, is the tricky question of how YouTube can make money off its phenomenal growth while maintaining the promise behind that popularity. YouTube could easily alienate its users by overwhelming them with ads. And the startup has to figure out how to attract a broader group of marketers by filtering more for copyrighted or offensive videos and by creating more channels of similar content.
  Everyone from Time Warner and Viacom to Yahoo! and Microsoft is under enormous pressure to acquire the next MySpace or YouTube. But amid steadily rising valuations, Old and New Media executives alike are afraid of overpaying and being punished by their shareholders. They are seeing a valuation gap that sometimes doesn't make sense, says Wade Davis, Viacom's senior vice-president for mergers and acquisitions, who has overseen a handful of Web 2.0 deals whose prices collectively are well below what Google is paying for YouTube. Time Warner Chairman and CEO Richard D. Parsons, still dealing with the aftermath of the disastrous merger with AOL in 2001, has similar concerns. Paying up is less of a concern for a Google, of course. While Old Media continues to suffer from lagging stock prices and tepid advertising revenues, Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo have huge cash hoards, manageable debt, and, in the case of Google, a lofty stock price. Paying $1.65 billion for YouTube amounts to less than 2% of Google's $130 billion market cap - and the big bet on the video-sharing site could be as much about gut and ego as it is about hard-nosed business sense. Nonetheless, some analysts see a lot of froth in the market, and the risk remains that even highfliers like MySpace and YouTube could flame out if their fickle, youthful audiences decide to move on.
  With all the hubbub around Google Inc.'s purchase of YouTube Inc., it's easy to think that three-minute, streaming clips mark the culmination of the online video revolution. The next few months will see the unveiling of a slew of innovative approaches to dishing up video. They range from the much anticipated launch of something called the Venice Project, by the founders of Skype Ltd., the Internet phone service, to the rebirth of BitTorrent, the video piracy software of choice as a legitimate business. Rather than join the 150 YouTube video-sharing clones dishing up short, static-ridden videos, the Venice Project is tackling the problem of streaming long videos of nearly high-definition-TV quality in a cost-effective way.
  In the past year, cellular-service providers and phonemakers have begun moving to faster networks, including something new called WiMAX, which is like Wi-Fi writ large. This will unleash a flood of innovative mobile gadgets and services that will stretch the definition of wireless as we know it. This latest phase of the mobile revolution is intimately tied to the abrupt rise of media-rich social networks such as Google Inc.'s YouTube and News Corp.'s MySpace.com. Groups of friends crave connectedness, and they achieve it by swapping photos, music, and video clips, immersing themselves in a shared chronicle of daily life. To participate, you used to have to sit in front of a computer screen. Now the handset, stuffed with content you purchase or create, will become your personal television network, your music studio, and your wallet for dispensing digital money. South Korea and Japan have emerged as oracles of mobility. More than 3 million Koreans regularly use their mobile phones to log on to the giant Cyworld social networking site. Both Japan and Korea are starting to roll out speedy WiMAX data networks that can deliver wireless broadband access to entire cities.
  Far from the land of dogs on skateboards and Webcam yakkers on YouTube, the online genre of scripted programs is attracting small but passionate groups of fans. The networks and talent agencies are watching closely, and the phenomenon is giving indie filmmakers new ways to get their works seen. Given these webcasts' ability to generate dedicated followers, their potential seems particularly attractive to advertisers. Advertisers are looking for a Google-like system that will tell them where and when to put their ads next to scripted Web shows. Another alternative would be a site that hosts many such niche shows, so it would have the economies of scale to serve up longer, higher-resolution videos and maintain an ad sales force.
  Six years after the Internet bust dashed hopes that original movies and shows would fly in cyberspace, online production is back. And it's not being fueled by Hollywood suits and high-priced directors who crowded the Net in 1999. Today a small army of computer jockeys from Santa Monica to Brooklyn is quietly creating a New Hollywood by conjuring up hundreds of short bursts of animated or live-action entertainment from their second bedrooms or kitchen tables. Companies are taking notice, placing products in the films themselves or running ads next to the videos. Going a step further, companies eager to connect with a younger audience are hiring these new filmmakers to create commercials. It's a tough way to make a living. Free content on the internet drives the price down for even the hottest pros cranking out films for the Web.
"  Nearly 40 years ago, in a blue-collar Irish neighborhood in Scranton, Pa., Judy McGrath fell in love with music. Her life took a magical detour that led her to write on-air promotions for a new invention, music television. Twenty-five years later, she is chairman and CEO of MTV Networks Co. The $7 billion-a-year operation she oversees is a collection of some of the most recognizable brands in the business, from the original MTV to Nickelodeon to VH1 to Comedy Central. Their programs are seen in 169 countries and heard in 28 languages. Today the girl with a bohemian streak and rock 'n' roll dreams has one of the biggest and most challenging jobs in media. The music channel may have seemed bold and experimental when it began in August, 1981. But the MTV empire today is a staple of the media Establishment and faces a slew of new threats. After all, it's the iPod era, a broadband world, and the online generation is defining for itself what is edgy and new. Ratings may be strong for many of the channels, but the original MTV isn't the must-see it was. So McGrath has declared ""a digital Marshall Plan."" It signals the end of the one-screen company. The troops must now deliver services across new broadband channels, over cell phones, and via video games. No piece of the network is under as much fire as the core MTV channels. And McGrath is doing something alien to the start-from-scratch culture: seeking acquisitions and partnerships."
  A year ago, Yahoo!'s ambitions in the media industry were nothing short of audacious. Yahoo! Inc. execs spoke of creating smash-hit, medium-defining programming for the interactive world. The company furiously set to work on a number of high-profile content ideas, from adapting the abandoned reality-TV show The Runner into a multimillion-dollar Internet program to developing a home-electronics reality contest, dubbed Wow House. Today, after a turbulent year in the media business, Yahoo is singing a much more modest tune. Large projects such as The Runner are in a holding pattern as Yahoo susses out the potential business opportunities. Wow House has been sent back to the drawing board. Yahoo's original content endeavors, from celebrity blogs to the online reality shows, have fallen flat or been stuck in development. Certainly, Yahoo has plenty going for it. The company boasts over 400 million visitors and a media division that streams more music videos than anyone else each month. But its reluctance to aggressively pursue outside content unless it can add its own twist could hurt its efforts to pull in advertisers.
  Their knack for numbers has helped turn the Internet into an advertising sensation. No medium before has been able to provide advertisers with such detailed information on how many people see an ad--and how many respond to it with a click. This apparent precision has helped hoist Google Inc. into the stratosphere. And it has powered phenomenal growth across Internet advertising, from banner ads on smart-alecky blogs to movie videos jumping out from Yahoo!'s home page. But not all the Internet numbers tell the truth. The same technology that's smart enough to target ads automatically, and to count them, can also be engineered to churn out false clicks by the millions. And concerns about privacy are leading an estimated 10% of Web surfers to erase their Internet cookies on a regular basis. The race is on to find new ways to track customer behavior. Advertisers and agencies are tracking the to-and-froing of the mouse on Web pages, and they're finding new ways to group shoppers by age, Zip Code, and reading habits.
  Owners of TV stations once had to try to mess up the business.Oh, sure, there was competition from cable, endless wrangling with the networks you did business with, and costly local news wars, fought with expensive gimmicks like news choppers. But local TV was a relatively undisturbed patch of the sandbox. Then Apple unveiled the video iPod. And ABC started selling programs as $1.99 downloads before subsequently announcing that it would stream shows over the Web, sell ads around them, and not share those revenues with local station affiliates. But sometimes the Web can give back some of what it takes away, and there's untapped upside for local TV guys online. Ad agency folks will tell you that there's more demand for Web video ads--for a local station's site, the ad snippet preceding, say, sports highlights--than there is inventory. The growth of these ads may not make up all the money local TV players would lose should many viewers forsake their local station for streamed or downloaded shows. But given the high prices online video ads command, they might get close.
"  If movie studios hope to dodge the fate of the music industry, whose growth was cut short in part by illegal downloading, they need to come up with a solution to illegal copying. So studios are prodding the feds to put some fear into pirates. The goal: stem the $6.1 billion that the industry estimates was lost to illegal copying in 2005. Half of pirated material is in DVDs sold on street corners, but $3 billion comes from pirates stealing digital movies and posting them online. A global investigation is methodically targeting piracy rings from Chicago to Charlotte, NC, to China. To date, a California investigation has won 24 convictions. The picture that emerges from these investigations is of loosely knit cybergangs, driven more by competitive zeal than profit motive. A skilled ""cammer,"" who records movies in a theater and sends them off for uploading to the Net, can make up to $2,000 per film. But most pirates are in it for the thrill of proving their coding skills."
"  According to angry consumers and the New York State Attorney General, Direct Revenue makes ""spyware."" These programs track where you go on the Internet and clutter your screen with annoying pop-up advertisements for everything from pornography to wireless phone plans. Spyware can get stuck in your computer's hard drive as you shop, chat, or download a song. It might arrive attached to that clever video you just nabbed at no charge. Web security company McAfee Inc. estimates that nearly three-quarters of all sites listed in response to Internet searches for popular phrases like ""free screen savers"" or ""digital music"" attempt to install some form of advertising software in visitors' computers. Once lodged there, spyware can sap a PC's processing power, slow its functioning, and even cause it to crash. The Web is the hottest game in advertising, but what's rarely acknowledged is the extent to which unsavory pop-ups boost the returns. Some advertisers say their messages have appeared in pop-ups without their permission. Others seek out pop-ups, and Direct Revenue frequently sells ads directly to such advertisers."
  The typical Fendi ad is beautifully styled and impeccably shot, but totally static-models toting $2,000 handbags are frozen two-dimensionally on glossy pages. That's all changing in late September when Fendi's first video ad goes live on Style.com, the online home of Vogue and W magazines, just in time for the Italian fashion shows. The video will be peppered across the site, jumping out as a full-screen pop-up and rolling as a 15-second clip before Style.com's videos of the collections. Fendi is just one of a bevy of luxury-goods retailers, including Valentino Fashion Group and Bottega Veneta, that Style.com has recently lured onto the Web. The six-year-old site attracted 88 advertisers to ply next season's swingy spring dresses online during September's New York Fashion Week, a 54% jump over last year. Designers, who rack up $14 billion in sales annually, realize they need to follow the changing habits of customers, who increasingly are snapping up the latest must-haves online.
  The dilemma facing any owner of copyrighted works continues to be how to compete with free given that the unauthorized use of online of books, music, and videos is still rampant. But Mohen's plan is to offer music free and still ensure that the record labels get paid. The concept? Sell advertising and offer music companies the bulk of those revenues. To help woo Madison Avenue, Mohen hired Robin Kent, a former chairman of ad giant Universal McCann Worldwide, to be his CEO, and SpiralFrog was born. SpiralFrog is one of a handful of new services introduced in the past two months that offer music, videos, and, in one case, books for free in exchange for users having to view advertising.
  Move over, MySpace. Just as the big online social networks are branching out, trying to reach an audience broader than teens and Gen Y, a raft of upstarts hopes to reach these same prospects. To attract older or less tech-savvy folks, they're offering ever-more-targeted services that can be personalized to people's existing social groups and interests. These new social-networking sites range from karaoke and photography communities on Multiply to canine sites on Dogster and community TV-style personal video sites and mothers' groups created using do-it-yourself services such as Ning and PeopleAggregator. The big question is whether these sites, which depend largely on advertising for revenues, can overcome the awesome momentum of such leaders as News Corp.'s MySpace, with 130 million users and 8 million more each month, and Facebook, with 12 million people.
