  The Super Bowl halftime show has become a showcase for some of music's biggest stars in recent years, from Paul McCartney and the Rolling Stones to Beyonce, Prince, and Madonna. True to form, this year's broadcast, on February 1 on Comcast's NBC, will feature singer Katy Perry, one of pop music's biggest acts, with an assist by rocker Lenny Kravitz. Yet that star power isn't deterring YouTube from offering its own halftime show online, hosted by Harley Morenstein, the ringleader of food stunt group Epic Meal Time. The show, featuring some of YouTube's biggest stars, is part of a broader initiative to promote ads on the Google-owned site -- as well as to exploit America's cult of loving and hating the expensive ads that air during the Super Bowl, the year's most-watched television event. More than 60 million people subscribe to the channels of the participating creators, some of whom YouTube has promoted on billboards around the US.
  Not long ago, Clint and Wiley Hensley, twin 8-year-old brothers in Silver Spring, MD, made an important discovery. They realized they could use their family's Roku streaming player to watch SpongeBob SquarePants -- Nickelodeon's hit animated television series about a goofs' sponge and his neurotic underwater friends -- over the Internet through Amazon Prime Instant Video. Soon the twins were cycling through episodes until they'd lost count. Clint found Patrick, the dopey starfish, particularly hilarious. SpongeBob SquarePants began airing on Viacom's Nickelodeon in 1999, seven. years before the Hensley twins were born. Since then, significant changes -- the advent of Netflix, the rise of YouTube, the proliferation of DVRs, smartphones, tablets, etc. a -- have upended the home-entertainment market. The rise of on-demand viewing and social media -- SpongeBob has 59 million fans on Facebook -- has only helped drive the character further into viewers' lives. The SpongeBob film is the first from Paramount Pictures' dedicated animated division, which the company launched in 2011.
  It's been a decade since YouTube became the first household name in Internet video. In 2008, at the first NewFronts, an annual online marketing conference, Google-owned YouTube had the overwhelming majority of the viewership. Hulu was new, and Facebook had added videos just the year before. At this year's NewFronts, April 27-May 7 in New York, 34 companies are promoting online shows and vying for ad dollars. While YouTube retains a healthy lead in the $7.8 billion US market for online video ads, it's not keeping pace with rivals' growth. Over the past two years, many production companies that reliably crank out hit videos, some now owned by big media companies, have spread their work to other services.
  At a time when YouTube personalities are being cast in feature films and Vine celebrities are shooting television commercials for Hewlett-Packard, social media stars are attractive to advertisers eager to captivate young eyeballs. YouNow, which the analytics firm App Annie ranks seventh in the US among iOS social networking apps by gross revenue, is a favorite. The company says it logs 100 million user sessions each month, with visitors spending an average of 50 minutes a day, whether broadcasting their own videos or viewing those of others. Unlike YouTube, Vine, and most other amateur-video services, though, YouNow doesn't allow advertising. Instead, it relies on viewers to tip the people who make videos they like, taking a 30% cut for itself. People on YouNow agree to do things in exchange for followers or tips but the culture of the site shuns the exhibitionism-for-hire found on adult sites.
"  As soon as Chad Horstman saw the YouTube video of a rat dragging a slice of pizza in the New York City subway, he knew it should be a Halloween costume. It was just so obvious, says Horstman, 37, founder of the online lingerie and costume store Yandy.com. They try to make things that people are going to instantly recognize, he says. With viral videos, it's pretty easy. Yandy expects $1 million in costume sales this year, about 30% of which will come from ""trend"" costumes -- outfits relevant only in 2015. Today, the more controversial a costume is, the more likely it is to go viral. When that happens, the real benefit for a manufacturer is marketing, not sales revenue."
  Using the screen name KittyPlaysGames, Kristen Valnicek was streaming herself playing death matches in various games, most frequently Counter-Strike, a popular first-person shooter. Fans follow her footage on a Web site called Twitch, which bills itself as a social network for video game fans. Typically, they watch Valnicek in a split-screen format, with her gameplay in one window and a smaller projection of her head and torso, captured via webcam, in another. Twitch, which was launched in 2011 as the side project of a floundering San Francisco startup, has grown into a global vortex of adolescent veneration. Twitch, which Amazon.com acquired in September 2014 for about $970 million, is the front-runner in this growing market, but it faces a serious challenge from a powerful adversary: Google's YouTube. Today, Twitch's headquarters are in an office building in downtown San Francisco. Most of the common areas are tricked out with video-game-inspired decor.
  For a spinoff of Breaking Bad that's meant to be a prequel, Better Call Saul opens in a strange place: the kitchen of a Cinnabon in a Nebraska mall, some time after the closing credits rolled five seasons of the show's forebear. The man behind the counter, sporting a bushy mustache but missing his trademark hairpiece, is Saul Goodman, the crooked defense attorney who played a supporting role on Breaking Bad. Since the days of Laverne &amp; Shirley and Frasier, spinoffs have been a time-honored way for network executives to exploit an established audience. Thanks to Netflix and other online-video services, the audience for Breaking Bad increased over time, with average weekly viewers climbing to 5.4 million the last season, according to Nielsen.
  For more than a decade, pirating a movie or television show using BitTorrent, the Internet's notorious file-sharing protocol, required a modicum of work and technical ability. You had to use a clunky program specially designed to seek out and decode pirated files, then learn to refine its search tools to find the videos you wanted. Annoying banner ads within the search program were part of the deal, as was occasional malware. Pirating wasn't just a pain for the Hollywood studios whose products were being passed freely around the Web; it was a pain for unscrupulous seekers of free video, too. In the past year, a program called Popcorn Time has become the kinder, gentler face of piracy online, taming BitTorrent to make it far more user-friendly and less obviously sketchy. Although it's difficult to estimate total viewership of a pirate service, in Netflix's latest annual report to shareholders CEO Reed Hastings and CFO David Wells named Popcorn Time a major worry.
"  In January the messaging app Snapchat, known mostly for letting its young users share annotated photos that vanish shortly afterward, added a ""Discover"" feature, a menu of free channels from 11 media companies that publish video clips and news stories directly to Snapchat. Two people who work for Snapchat's channel partners say their daily video clips and written stories average more than 1 million viewers. Although it has an obsessive young audience coveted by advertisers that now totals more than 100 million, the app's main content is uniquely ephemeral, and the company says it doesn't track user behavior in the ways most social networks do to sell ads. Snapchat is also selling ads against feeds of short, nondisappearing videos from users, a feature called ""Live"" unveiled last summer. Some Live feeds have drawn more than 30 million viewers, say the three people familiar with Snapchat's viewership."
"  Even for the ""Worst Company in America,"" it's been a rough year. Comcast, the largest US cable provider, got that title -- and the Golden Poo trophy that comes with it -- from Consumerist, the advocacy blog owned by Consumer Reports, in April 2014. Customers surveyed in its hometown of Philadelphia said they regard its service as ""lousy"" or ""non-existent."" In February the company began sending customers personalized online billing videos that explain extra charges such as movie purchases. In March it expanded the team handling customer complaints via Facebook and Twitter from 20 employees to 60. It's testing a smartphone app that lets customers track the location of the technician headed their way."
  From HBO and AMC to ESPN and the Tennis Channel, television networks have relied for decades on cable and satellite providers to distribute their programming. In the era of streaming video, they're trying to deliver shows and movies directly to viewers online, yielding a host of challenges more complex than negotiating fees with the likes of Comcast and DirecTV, says Paul Rehrig, SVP for business development at AMC. To build Shudder, Rehrig hired DramaFever, one of more than two dozen businesses working behind the scenes to set up dedicated online homes for old-school media companies. Some of the new online destinations make their money from ads; others, from subscriptions, like the small packages of streaming television channels out or coming by year-end from Comcast, Verizon, Dish Network, Apple, and Sony.
  As a working mom, Abbie Schiller relied on 30 minutes of television in the morning and the evening to keep her toddler occupied. There was plenty of programming that taught kids to count and spell, but the Los Angeles resident saw a void when it came to social and emotional learning. So Schiller, who was head of public relations for ABC Daytime, improvised. Schiller left ABC in 2007 to focus full time on creating videos and books that help kids cope with strong emotions, like jealousy and anger, and sticky situations, like getting lost. She and her husband, Marc Gordonson, a digital advertising executive, sold their house and moved in with her parents.
  The successful expansion by Netflix into Australia, Canada, Europe, and Latin America over the last five years has increased investor confidence in the streaming service's plan to build the first worldwide, online television network. By the end of 2016, CEO Reed Hastings wants to reach the rest of the globe, a sprint through more than 150 countries across Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and the Middle East. That push begins with Netflix's September 2 entry into Japan, home to more broadband households than any of its current markets outside the US. Netflix figures the potential for an on-demand revolution exists, since much of Japan has access to broadband Internet at home, and people routinely watch videos over their mobile phones. The real challenge is to generate excitement in a place that isn't clamoring for Netflix, says Cameron Johnson, company executive working on the Japanese site. Hastings won't give hard numbers, but he's optimistic about Netflix's prospects.
"  Ever since Susan Kare's 8-bit designs graced the first Macintosh screens in 1984, icon design, like digital typography, has been an important if unglamorous niche in the software business. The 2008 debut of Apple's App Store created a sea change in the industry, says Gedeon Maheux, co-founder of Iconfactory, a large design studio in Greensboro, NC, that does work for big brands such as Windows and Twitter. Icons and glyphs -- the term for symbols that blur the line between typography and pictograms, such as the triangular ""play"" button on online videos -- must be drawn for every screen size that Silicon Valley produces, from 5K resolution monitors to smart appliances and wearables. Even the tiniest icons start out big on designers' screens. This isn't merely for convenience while drawing them: Many clients require large-format versions of the icons for use in offline marketing materials. Multiple device resolutions are another issue."
  When Amazon.com, Apple, and Google released updated versions of their streaming devices this fall, all three companies pitched them as a way to play video games on television. Roku is doing the opposite. While discussing the company's strategy shortly before the October 6 release of the Roku 4, CEO Anthony Wood had to be pressed to even mention gaming. Wood said that their attitude on gaming is that it's a feature, not a strategy. Roku has offered some games for years, but the CEO said he doubts his company's hardware or any of its direct competitors will make much headway with hard-core gamers. According to him, his competitors are misjudging the market because of the incredible success of mobile games.
