  In an interview, Hulu CEO Jason Kilar talks about the future of online video. Kilar says the Internet is going to have a bigger impact on content creators than the television ever had. He adds that the reason why that's the case is that suddenly people are able to tell stories 24/7 in the home, out of the home, in every room of the home. Kilar also says that the pay television industry today is a very healthy business. People pay for Netflix, HBO, VUDU, and Hulu Plus. He adds that the only thing that differentiates all those services is what people get in return for a given price. Meanwhile, Kilar says that Hulu launched its first original scripted series, called Battleground. He adds that they thought it was a story that needed to be told, and it would be a great differentiation for a service like Hulu.
"  Late last year, Google's YouTube announced it would spend $100 million to support video programming. YouTube is funding filmmakers, artists, writers, and proven online hitmakers with grants that range from a few hundred thousand to a few million dollars. It will eventually have about 100 new channels, including the Chopra Well, which will feature 10 spirituality-themed shows. By building a library of professionally produced programming that is closer to Charlie's Angels than to ""Charlie Bit My Finger,"" Google hopes to attract more viewers, reduce the need to negotiate with Hollywood studios, and woo some of the big-name advertisers who have been reluctant to put their products next to cat videos. YouTube is betting there's an entire class of material that might languish on cable but will find an audience on the Web. Others in the online ad world aren't so sure big brands can get comfortable with this kind of consumer control, despite YouTube's push into premium programming."
  Not long ago, like many YouTube entertainers, the comedians Rhett McLaughlin and Link Neal juggled lots of duties. They were part of the elite group of performers who could generate six-figure annual incomes via YouTube's revenue-sharing program, and by selling merchandise and creating sponsored video ads for consumer brands. Now Rhett &amp; Link have joined a growing crew of indie YouTube stars who have signed on to be represented by the Collective, a newfangled media company based in Los Angeles. The company aims to capitalize on the shifting entertainment landscape, in part, says entertainment veteran Michael Green, by teaming with artists like Rhett &amp; Link, who he believes are well positioned to capitalize on the decentralization of media consumption. Brand spending in digital video has ballooned, growing from $324 million in 2007 to $1.8 billion in 2011, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau. The Collective's artists have benefited.
  Los Angeles startup Therapick.com is shooting video interviews with licensed psychotherapists and compiling an online directory of short profile clips. People can use the site to look up psychologists, psychiatrists, mental health counselors, and clinical social workers by Zip Code and specialty, then watch their videos before deciding whether to schedule a session. So far, Therapick has taped interviews with more than 500 therapists in Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York, Chicago, and seven other cities. Therapists pay $299 a year to put the videos on Therapick's site, accompanied by text descriptions of their backgrounds and specialties. They can also embed the spots on their own Web sites or put them on YouTube.
"  Kids have been daring each other to do stupid stuff since the beginning of time, but only recently have social media come along to enhance -- and help share -- the experience. A recent craze sweeping teen circles is the Cinnamon Challenge. The goal is to gobble up a teaspoon of cinnamon and swallow it all in 60 seconds. The fun part comes from capturing it all on a laptop or phone and putting it on YouTube or Facebook, where friends and strangers can watch and revel in your pain. Where content is free, an entrepreneur is usually trying to make money off of it, and that person has emerged in the form of Scott Rosenbaum, who is seeking to monetize the orange ""dragon breath,"" as he calls it, often emitted by challengers. Rosenbaum is the proprietor of Cinnamonchallenge.com."
  Boxee, an Internet video provider, is embroiled in a spat with Comcast, News Corp, and Walt Disney, companies that own cable channels and are much more fluent in the language of Washington. The entertainment heavyweights are among those backing a rule the FCC proposed that would allow cable operators to encrypt all their television transmissions. That would be a blow to Boxee, which allows cable subscribers to plug their cords directly into Boxee Boxes -- bypassing the cable companies' own set-top boxes, and giving expensive dramas like Mad Men equal billing with YouTube's dog-on-skateboard videos. Taking a page from the Internet industry's recent defeat of the media industry-backed Stop Online Piracy Act, Boxee has rallied some of its two million users through blogs and social networks, asking them to voice their opposition to the FCC rule.
  With all the hoopla surrounding YouTube's new channels and ad initiative, business owners may be left wondering how to raise their profile on the site. One small company that has made a pretty big splash is Pigtronix, a guitar effects-pedal maker headquartered in Port Jefferson, NY, a town on Long Island about 60 miles east of Manhattan's Upper West Side, where YouTube unveiled scores of new channels to ad executives on Wednesday evening. YouTube is a core part of its marketing strategy, Pigtronix co-founder Dave Koltai told as he demonstrated his pedals on Tuesday afternoon. Over the years the company's video strategy has morphed, Koltai says. While he initially thought product demos would be the way to go he has since realized that music will get people coming back, especially if it's a big name who's doing the playing.
  It's all the rage to predict the demise of online display ads and Yahoo!, the company that pioneered the business. Display advertising is the old man of online marketing -- Web site banners are much less fashionable than, say, a personalized coupon delivered to your smartphone. The issue isn't the viability of display ads but whether Yahoo can stay in the game. From 2009 to 2011, the company's share of the market fell from 15.4% to 10.8%, according to EMarketer. The drop was largely due to the growth of Facebook and Google's YouTube. Yahoo is chasing buyers in online video, the fastest-growing category of Web ads, says EMarketer, which estimates the format will grow by 38% annually through 2015.
  While touring with his rock band Fiction Plane in 2010, bass player and vocalist Joe Sumner woke up one morning to discover 450 videos on YouTube of the previous night's show in Lithuania. Uploaded by fans with mobile phones, the footage was mostly grainy, shot from awkward angles, and had horrible sound. But it gave Sumner an idea of linking all of these videos and make a compelling movie. Vyclone, a company Sumner founded two years ago with friend David King Lassman, attempts to realize this vision. Its free program debuted in Apple's App Store on Jul 18 and lets two or more people in close proximity shoot video with their iPhones, upload the clips, and view a movie automatically spliced together from different angles.
  At less than $3, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia shares are worth a mere 8% of the $40 they hit after she took it public in 1999, serving orange juice and brioche to New York Stock Exchange traders. Rather than pack up her cookbooks and craft bags and head home to Connecticut or the Hamptons, America's most famous homemaker Martha Stewart is remaking her brand into one focused heavily on the Internet. On Sep 10, the company announced new partnerships to extend its content online, including a Martha Stewart Network with programs featuring Martha and chef Emeril Lagasse on video-streaming services Hulu and Hulu Plus, a deal to distribute shorter video clips on the AOL On Network, and a partnership with digital media company Fullscreen to rev up Martha's presence on YouTube.
"  The jailed Russian punk rock group Pussy Riot did not gain international fame through their musicality per se. That insight appears in an academic paper by three electronic-commerce researchers from the University of Texas, Austin. The 45-page paper, filled with equations and Greek letters, explains how being deliberately offensive can help a video break through the clutter on YouTube, where 72 hours' worth of video are uploaded every minute. The paper explains the two reasons people click on a video that lots of other people have clicked on. One is ""social learning""; the fact that others have watched it tells you it must be good. A very different reason is ""network effect""; whether the video is good or not, it becomes more valuable to watch it if others are watching it."
  Michael Carter's company, Game Closure, builds tools that let game developers write one version of their genius idea, then publish it anywhere. At its core, HTML 5 is a set of standards that lets Web browsers understand animations, videos, graphics, and other multimedia content without the need to download a plug-in like Adobe's Flash, which is how most Web videos and graphics are displayed today. The goal of HTML 5, which is gradually making its way into all modern browsers, including ones on mobile devices, is to make sites look and feel just like apps downloaded directly to a phone or desktop. Some worry the rush to HTML 5 could lead to shoddier software. Since the very idea behind HTML 5 is universality, it may discourage developers from tailoring their code to the capabilities of specific devices.
  In an interview, Dick Glover, CEO of FunnyOrDie.com, talked about his strategy for the humor on the site. Glover believes in a model of: keep the cost of content and marketing low, keep the quality high. You can be very successful. By and large, for short-form videos, the celebrity talent are compensated in a number of ways but not a cash remuneration: complete creative freedom, great promotional vehicle for whatever else they may be doing. By marketing on a media system that exists online, there are ways to reach people on a daily basis that isn't like having to spend $1 million on an ad on Thursday-night television. The greatest challenge has always been, and will always continue to be, to be funny every day, everywhere, again and again.
"  The term ""Internet memes"" is derived from genetics, describing the evolution of ideas and cultural phenomena by natural selection. These days, meme is the catchall for freely copied and altered tidbits of amusing online content, from animations and photo captions to viral videos that inspire a flood of parodies. Within weeks, most fade to oblivion, but those with endurance make the leap to the commercial world. Properly exploited, some memes can bring in anywhere from a few thousand dollars for a single licensed broadcast of a popular video to six figures for an integrated marketing campaign based around a meme. In the past two years, Lashes has helped clients license memes to brands such as Nike, Nokia, Wonderful Pistachios, and Lipton Brisk Iced Tea, which uses the Scumbag Steve photo in a new Web ad. Memes are a tremendous asset for brands because, like celebrities, they have an audience that recognizes and appreciates them."
"  The Department of Justice begins an antitrust probe into whether Comcast, Time Warner, and other cable providers are now trying to manipulate the way customers use the Internet -- specifically, whether imposing caps on the amount of data people can download monthly discourages them from using Netflix, Hulu, and other rival online video sites and steers them to the cable companies' own video-on-demand services, which aren't subject to the caps. Comcast and other Internet providers want customers to accept that they are the proprietors of separate, special Internets. It can be seen in the way they've tried to rebrand the Web as a private product. Comcast refers to its Web access as ""Xfinity."" AT&amp;T calls it ""U-Verse."" Verizon doesn't sell Web access, either. It sells ""FiOS."""
  Penny Arcade, which publishes online comics and puts on related events, is trying to use Kickstarter, the popular crowdfunding platform, with an ambitious campaign aimed at replacing the revenue it currently gets from advertising with funding from fans. Penny Arcade began as a simple video-game-oriented Web comic that writer Jerry Holkins and artist Mike Krahulik posted semi-regularly online in the late 1990s, and it has become a regular series with a number of associated real-world products and its own gaming conference called PAX. In its description of the Kickstarter campaign and related blog post, Holkins said eventually he and Krahulik wondered whether the platform would allow them to raise enough money to go back to a fully reader-funded mode.
  Roku's media streamer has become a go-to device for small online video services that target expats all over the world. The first live-television feeds on Roku were foreign-broadcast transmissions, and numerous companies have used Roku exclusively to reach expat audiences within the US. But for many developers, all this came to a halt when Roku removed 25 channels with foreign-language content, effectively shutting down the entire international section of its channel store. The reason for this move is that Roku struck a distribution agreement with Dish Network in May, which makes the satellite provider's DishWorld service the exclusive distributor of foreign programming on the platform. Customers can use DishWorld to subscribe to packages of content from such countries as India and Brazil, with streams delivered directly to their Roku boxes -- no satellite subscription required.
  If Google is essential to navigating the Web, Getty Images has become essential to visualizing it. Cobbled together through acquisitions, Getty is the world's largest photo and video agency, and its database of 80 million images is the raw material from which many of the Web's slide shows and photo galleries are made. A search for its images of happy people, for instance, turns up 626,317 results. That depth allows Getty to license its image trove online to all manner of bloggers and Web sites, businesses small and large, advertisers, newspapers, and magazines. With annual revenue approaching $1 billion, according to Getty, it's become a media business too important to ignore. Carlyle Group certainly took notice: On Aug 15, the private equity firm agreed to buy majority ownership of Getty from another private equity investor, Hellman &amp; Friedman, in a deal that values the company at $3.3 billion.
  Google has long dominated online advertising in much of the world by placing ads next to search results, and it was expected to do the same in China. But since the company's 2010 decision to stop self-censoring Web content on the mainland and move its China servers to Hong Kong, Google's business has fallen further behind Baidu, the local search champ. Now, with the help of a recent acquisition, Google has managed to carve out a market niche where it's the mainland leader: ads aimed at mobile phones. Mobile-search advertising goes beyond generating ads related to searches and automatically sends ads to users playing games, viewing videos, or using other apps on their smartphones and tablet computers.
  Consumers have plenty of ways to watch movies over the Internet. There's Netflix, Amazon.com Instant Video, Wal-Mart Stores' Vudu, and Apple's iTunes. Now the market for buying and renting films online is about to get more crowded. A new service, Redbox Instant by Verizon, plans to throw open its virtual doors to customers willing to pay $8 a month. Subscribers will gain online access to a catalog of older films at no extra fee, an on-demand store of newer movies available for rent or purchase, and DVD rental credits good for four recent releases each month from Redbox's kiosks at supermarkets and drugstores around the US. So far, studios seem to like the approach.
"  On the morning of Oct 18, 2012, shortly after publishing a Newsweek cover story entitled, ""Heaven Is Real,"" editor-in-chief Tina Brown informed her staff that the magazine itself would soon be joining the afterlife. In a challenging environment for print advertising, Brown explained, she and executives at Barry Diller's IAC had decided to instead publish Newsweek Global, a digital-only magazine supported by subscriptions and targeting a highly mobile, opinion-leading audience that consumes news on tablets, e-readers, and smartphones. However, industry analysts say going digital, while a reliable approach for rapidly cutting costs, remains an uncertain path to revitalization. Newsweek Global, which will launch in early 2013, will have to compete for ad dollars not only with the digital operations of its print adversaries, such as Time, but also with a new breed of search engine and social media news outlets such as BuzzFeed and the Huffington Post; robust indie blog networks such as Gawker Media; and video-savvy general news sites such as CNN.com."
  It wasn't so long ago that the notion of kids having their own tablet computers seemed excessive. But as tablets flood the market in record numbers -- more than 27 million were purchased in the third quarter alone, according to market researcher IDC -- it's become clear that the entertainment-laden devices are tailor-made for smaller hands. That's why in December the online retailer started positioning its hot-selling tablet as a makeshift toy. Amazon introduced FreeTime Unlimited, a subscription multimedia service for the Kindle Fire and the Kindle Fire HD aimed exclusively at children between the ages of three and eight. Amazon is heavily promoting the service's parental controls, which allow adults to limit the time each child can spend watching videos and restricts purchases kids can make while online. While the digital media landscape has been perilous for paid subscription services, there's evidence that FreeTime Unlimited could succeed where others failed because it's built on unfettered access to a bottomless well of content.
"  On Monday afternoon, visitors to ABCNews.com who wanted to learn more about the latest news on the tragedy in Newtown, CT, had a range of Web video options to choose among. But before they could watch, say, ""Newtown Shooting: Teachers and Parents Turn to School Security,"" visitors had to first sit through a playful ad for skin-care products. This represents a tricky and growing challenge for news organizations. According to EMarketer, online video is the fastest growing category of Web ads; spending is expected to skyrocket from $2.93 billion in 2012 to $8.04 billion in 2016. When disaster strikes, be it a mass shooting, a terrorist attack, or a deadly storm, broadcasters attempt to strike a balance between making money from the surge in online viewers and managing advertisers' reluctance to be seen alongside tragic news."
