"YouTube is ""definitely being more creative,"" said Nick Bomersbach, vice president of e-commerce for J.C. Penney Co. The retailer is making YouTube ""a much more important component of our marketing campaigns,"" he added, after a campaign it launched in July to promote its new clothing line from professional skateboarder Ryan Sheckler was more successful in directing traffic to the retailer's Web site than its previous YouTube campaigns."
  For all its success selling text ads alongside search results, Google can't seem to make a go of it anywhere else in the ad world. In its hunt for new growth, the search giant is redoubling efforts to grab a bigger piece of the largest online ad market it doesn't control: display ads, the pictorial banners and videos that account for more than a third of the $40 billion online ad market. Google faces a tough challenge. Yahoo! and Microsoft's MSN have a huge lead in display ads, largely because they can put ads on their own pages of content, like Yahoo Finance and MSN Money. Google hopes to place more display ads on its YouTube site as well as on thousands of partner sites, from small blogs to The New York Times. Google will begin demonstrating what may be its most potent weapon in this emerging battle: an overhauled version of the advertising exchange that it picked up in the $3.2 billion acquisition of DoubleClick. The exchange is part of Google's overriding goal to make display ads, which can be expensive to create and complex to manage, so easy that even the smallest businesses can use them. Still, the exchange won't be an instant game-changer. Since exchanges require a new mindset at agencies and publishers, they may take time to catch on widely, says Mike Walrath, founder of Yahoo's Right Media exchange. And some think anything but search gets short shrift inside Google.
  Hulu was launched in 2007. Each month the site's 1,700-title catalog of TV shows and movies attracts nearly 40 million viewers--people who will endure a couple of commercials per sitcom (vs. eight or more on TV) in exchange for the luxury of being able to watch a show for free, just one day after it airs on network TV. Those days may now be coming to an end. NBC, Fox, and ABC, the broadcasters that control Hulu, are warming to the idea of charging for at least some content. Hulu is expected to start testing subscription tiers for its programs in the new year, according to those who have worked with the Los Angeles company. The site may be No. 2 after YouTube in number of videos streamed, according to comScore, but analysts expect Hulu to lose $33 million this year. The betting among analysts is that sooner or later Hulu will ditch its open model in favor of a closed one.
  Maximum Entertainment, a production company that makes video ads. Maximum's pitch, to marketers and ad agencies that might be interested in hiring it, revolves around the company's stable of directors, almost all of whom come from the world of film. The Internet continues to rework most long-held assumptions about media and marketing, but many advertisers, rightly or wrongly, still spend serious sums to ensure they get beautiful images. There are ego issues associated with hiring famous directors - all marketers think their products are stars - but the real dividends come from unusually memorable ads. Maximum's trump card is its knack for attracting well-known directors who are new to shooting ads. In its most idealized form, a company like Maximum solves two problems. It produces commercials for recession-battered advertising agencies that have cut back on in-house production. And it provides revenue to directors who make the sort of small movies that are cherished by the cognoscenti but rarely do boffo box office. The likes of Maximum represent one more way in which the decay of older business models spreads out monies, and opportunities, to new-style players.
  On Feb. 3, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment is going to make an honest man of me. Finally I will be able to buy a legal DVD of one of my favorite movies, Carol Reed's 1959 Our Man in Havana. But there's still no rhyme or reason to what films are available in any digital form. If, for example, you happen to have a videotape player around, you can watch an old VHS version of The African Queen. But you can't buy it on DVD or download it from any of the Hollywood-sanctioned online services. The basic problem is that Hollywood is attempting to preserve an analog business model in a digital age.
  Thanks to the Web, companies have direct online access to consumers. Take that fact, stir in the surfeit of unemployed journalists (or fearful employed ones searching for safer perches), and you get novel kinds of businesses forming around news and media professionals. Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based company that sells anti-virus software, launched Threatpost.com on Mar. 11. The site, which focuses on computer and Internet security, aggregates articles and videos from across the Web. It employs two journalists to blog, edit the site, and produce its podcasts. Moving into media is an odd step given the wholesale carnage afflicting all sectors of that industry these days. But privately held Kaspersky is not after a media business. It's not selling ads on the site, though it may run promotions for business partners. Threatpost, says Kaspersky's chief marketing officer, Randy Drawas, is not a profit-generating enterprise. Rather, the company wants in on the public discourse concerning the issues its business revolves around. To sidestep concerns about favoritism, we draw the line at product news and reviews, says its editor Ryan Naraine, a tech journalist hired by Kaspersky in May 2008 as a public-relations staffer.
"  The main backers of the long-awaited music site, Vevo, which was launched December 8th (Universal Music, Sony Music Entertainment, and EMI Group) hope Vevo will help turn around the sagging recording industry. For years record labels saw music videos as just another tool to sell CDs. Now, with album sales down more than 52% since their peak in 2000, the industry sees videos as a potential advertising gold mine--or at least a silver mine. Vevo's goal, says CEO Rio Caraeff, is to ""enhance"" music fans' experience by providing a central location for premium quality videos as well as bonus materials about the artists and their songs. Vevo, which has its own YouTube channel, is the music industry's version of Hulu, the TV and movie site operated by NBC, Fox, and ABC. Of course, Hulu isn't making money, though there are differences between the models. Some 20 advertisers signed on for Vevo's launch. Warner has a different approach. It believes Vevo's portal-like service diminishes the only brands that matter in music: the artists."
"  The ""real-time Web"" is the term coined to describe the exploding number of live social activities online, from tweets to status updates on Facebook to the sharing of news, Web links, and videos on myriad other sites. It's also a whole new field of dreams for entrepreneurs and investors. Amid the downsized remains of Web 2.0, with online advertising and e-commerce in a drought, they're viewing the real-time Web as the Internet's Next Big Thing. The emerging sector is so new, and its boundaries so fuzzy, that it's difficult to know how much money has been sunk into how many firms. But many dozens of startups are staking claims and drawing interest from investors. ""Real-time"" is actually a bit of a misnomer. Most of this activity doesn't truly occur in real time, the way talking on the phone does, and social gestures such as sharing links with friends are just as important a part of the appeal as immediacy. These gestures--often accompanied by data from people's profiles on social networks, such as where they live or their age--hold the key to the real-time Web's moneymaking potential. Established search engines have no intention of falling behind."
  The thing about Web video, of course, is that anyone can do it. Shoot it, edit it, distribute it on YouTube and other outlets--done. Assuming, of course, that distribute means put it alongside zillions of similar things. This is partly why building a Web video business is tough, as even showbiz vets have discovered. Unless you invert aspects of the traditional model, as a two-year-old Santa Monica (Calif.) Web video outfit called Deca does. Deca, an acronym for Digital Entertainment Corp. of America, is exploring several ways to produce Web series in unusually marketer-centric ways.
  The two thirtyish founders of Web video production company EQAL, Miles Beckett and Greg Goodfried, are too media-savvy to boast they've cracked the code for minting big hits from serialized short online videos. Nevertheless, this is what their business (say equal) is based on, and it's why CBS is paying them to create a Web series offshoot of the network's upcoming mystery show Harper's Island. Goodfried and Beckett envision four ways for EQAL to make a buck: original online series that generate ad and sponsorship deals; doing work-for-hire for the likes of CBS; licensing its series abroad; and providing its tech platforms for videobloggers who've scored success on YouTube and want to start their own sites. Those ancillary streams are now important, Goodfried concedes, since selling ads and sponsorships around EQAL's original work just got tougher: What we do is the R&amp;D side of marketing, and everyone is cutting that in the short term.
