Bernardus J. Verwaayen, the chief executive of London-based BT Group PLC, has in the past two years increased revenues, boosted margins, and restored positive cash flow. Verwaayen has now launched another bold plan. He intends to transfer the bulk of the companys core phone network by 2008 to a 21st century network using Internet technology. BT and Yahoo! have launched a leading-edge broadband package that lets customers send e-mail and instant messages, make phone and video calls over the Net, and manage contacts online. A new product, code-named Project Bluetooth, that could revolutionize telephony by erasing the gap between fixed and mobile service is also in the pipeline.
"""The only reason it didn't succeed was broadband,"" says Mark Davis, managing partner of the venture-backed company practice at consultancy Deloitte &amp; Touche, which advised Mibrary. ""It came to the point of saying, 'This idea is just too early.' It would be perfect right now."" The Web casts, provided by Sportsline.com Inc. for a $9.95 subscription and free for AOL's three million high-speed subscribers, may not have been possible as recently as a year ago, says FeedRoom President and Chief Executive Jon Klein. ""We would have had far fewer viewers,"" says Mr. Klein, who in 1998 left his job as a senior executive overseeing CBS's 60 Minutes to start FeedRoom. ""There's now a critical mass of viewers for marketers to reach."" Another dot-com era media start-up company benefiting from the surge in broadband is the NewsMarket, a video-archive and distribution platform that allows the news media to access free broadcast-standard video over the Internet. ""The digital newsroom, [powered by] broadband, is transforming how the broadcast media operates,"" says Anthony Hayward, co-founder and chairman of the NewsMarket. ""Those same technologies are transforming how . . . companies are communicating. We sit right in the middle of that opportunity."""
Third-generation mobile-phone service is taking off in Europe. The 3G that had provoked a $120 billion spectrum-licensing frenzy during the dot-com boom and then nearly destroyed Europe's telecommunications industry with multibillion-dollar losses has now finally arrived with its promise of cheaper voice calls, fast wireless Internet access, and exciting multi-media services such as streaming video clips and online gaming. Giants like Vodafone, T-Mobile, and Orange are rolling out business and consumer 3G service all over Europe.
  Advertisers are seeing that the top few Web properties now reach true mass audiences. Each of the 3 biggest portals - AOL, MSN, and Yahoo! - attracts 70% of the Americans online to its properties monthly, according to comScore Networks, a traffic-tracking organization. Demand for this prime real estate is so strong that there isn't enough to go around, and prices to advertise are soaring. Facing a traffic jam at the top sites, advertisers are jostling for spots throughout the Net. The Internet is growing up. Broadband connections now reach more than half of American households, including the lion's share of the prosperous ones. Now that advertisers have their hands on a tool that measures an ad's effectiveness, they're starting to press other media for similar accountability. It's a process sure to cause disruptions. The portals are taking advantage of the hot video market to funnel advertisers toward thousands of their less-trafficked pages.
  It looked like a boffo debut for William H. Gates III and his attempt to go Hollywood. Since the debacle, Microsoft has phased out the geeks in favor of Hollywood insiders. The company's goal is to persuade the studios to wrap their movies in Microsoft's software, which the company is offering for free. That way, Microsoft can turn around and sell the software that plays these digital versions of movies to computer makers, consumer-electronics companies, and online video services. The new approach is helping Microsoft make headway. Still, the studios remain wary of Microsoft, given its bruising monopolistic practices of the past.
  Now that Apple has reinvented itself as the king of the digital music world, Microsoft is trying to wrestle that mantle away with a new breed of iPod rivals, including ones that play color video as well as music. On Sept. 2, the company is launching its most comprehensive foray yet into the digital media world. Portable video players, which run on Microsoft software and are made by Samsung Group and others, are just a piece of the tech giant's plan to steal Apple's rock 'n' roll mojo. Microsoft also is opening the doors to an online music store that includes a handful of popular artists that Apple's iTunes site doesn't have. More important, the company is rolling out an update of its Windows Media Player audio and video software that's designed to make it just as easy to purchase and manage music with Microsoft powered gear as it is with Apple's iPod and iTunes combo.
  The US has steadily fallen behind other nations, both in terms of the share of the population with broadband and the speed of those connections. Broadband is the foundation upon which entire new generations of technology will be built: full-motion video, Web-based medical care, more sophisticated Internet telephoning, and online gaming. That's why the US is in dire need of stronger leadership in broadband. Both President George W. Bush and Democratic Presidential candidate John F. Kerry have pledged to tackle the issue after the election. But so far, their proposals are modest. Most markets are cozy duopolies, at best, where consumers can get broadband only from a phone or cable company. To have any hope of joining the world's broadband vanguard, the US must create a viable third competitor. Congress is unlikely to force politically powerful Bells to share their networks. Much more promising is the rivalry that might be sparked by new, inexpensive wireless technologies.
