As a former tour manager for Bob Dylan and The Band, Jonathan Taplin isn't your typical academic. Lately, though, he's been busy writing somber tomes about market shares, monopolies, and online platforms. His conclusion: Amazon.com, Facebook, and Google have become too big and too powerful and, if not stopped, may need to be broken up. Taplin, 70, author of Move Fast and Break Things: How Facebook, Google, and Amazon Cornered Culture and Undermined Democracy, knows digital media, having run the Annenberg Innovation Lab at the University of Southern California. Ten years before YouTube, he founded one of the first video-on-demand streaming services. He also knows media M&amp;A as a former Merrill Lynch investment banker in the 1980s. He says Google is as close to a monopoly as the Bell telephone system was in 1956. Taplin suggests that authorities look to 1956, when the US forced Bell Labs to license its patents to all corners. The result
Disney has been integrating Maker, which it acquired in 2014 for $675 million, into its consumer-products and interactive-business unit since December in an attempt to find a winning strategy for the business , which had been flailing. The vast majority of people in Maker's YouTube network have made very little...
"""Evil unicorns"" aren't billion-dollar startups gone bad. The term, coined by Google engineers, refers to webpages full of lies about an obscure subject. When there's little other information about the subject online, the lie-stuffed pages get pushed to the top of search results, because the search engine doesn't have much else to show. That's what happened in October, after the mass shooting in Las Vegas that killed 58 people and injured more than 500. For hours, Google searches about the massacre prominently displayed posts coordinated to falsely identify a Democratic donor critical of Donald Trump as the shooter. Something similar happened in November after the mass shooting in Sutherland Springs, TX. YouTube videos and tweets mislabeled the shooter as ""antifa,"" an antifascist protester often willing to use violence. While Google is accustomed to battling spammers and click-bait publishers to maintain the integrity of its search results, it's done less to fight back against the deliberate poisoning of its real-time news and video catalogs."
Facebook has been testing in-stream ads in videos over 90 seconds long for a number of months, but the addition of Watch content could create a host of new ad space for video advertisers to fill, provided the new shows succeed in attracting viewers and holding their attention.The addition of in-stream-only ad options might help attract ad dollars from marketers who have been reluctant to buy video ads in the news feed over concerns about the amount of time people actually view their ads.
"Google, part of Alphabet Inc., and Facebook together accounted for 99% of the online ad industry's growth last year, according to Pivotal Research. While the newer ad formats drove a 52% surge in the number of clicks, they are less lucrative than search ads, Google's legacy business. ""There are real questions there that we need to manage well,"" Mr. Zuckerberg said, of the company's embrace of video as a future source of ad revenue. Ads..."
In the past 25 years the cost of broadcast rights for English Premier League soccer has surged thirty-fold as deep-pocketed media companies have grown to depend on live sports to win subscribers and keep them from defecting to online rivals. Next year an even richer bunch -- those same Internet giants that are wooing television viewers -- will likely show up at rights auctions, pushing prices even higher. Live sports attracts a passionate fan base, Greg Hart, video chief at Amazon.com Inc, said in August after signing a deal to offer Association of Tennis Professionals matches on Prime Video.
"Mr. Zuckerberg had made a snap decision near the end of a product meeting in his glass-walled office in Menlo Park, Calif., to work around the clock to roll out Facebook Live, which took just two months. According to a tally by The Wall Street Journal, people have used Facebook Live to broadcast at least 50 acts of violence, including murder, suicides and the beating in January of a mentally disabled teenager in Chicago. The company was sharply criticized last July for removing live video from Minnesota woman Diamond Reynolds, who showed her boyfriend, Philando Castile, dying after being shot by a police officer during a traffic stop. The bad and good consequences reflect the inherent tension in Mr. Zuckerberg's vision of Facebook as a crucial part of the world's ""social infrastructure,"" a term he used in a nearly 6,000-word manifesto last month. More than a decade ago, YouTube offered a way to share videos without passing through traditional media channels and their careful editorial principles and federal decency guidelines, and the short delay to catch inappropriate content. [...]the young people who seemed to be taking an interest in Facebook Live were in the same demographic group that was drifting away from Facebook in favor of apps such as disappearing-message service Snapchat. Mary Anne Franks, a law professor at the University of Miami and vice president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, a group focused on stopping online abuse, said Facebook was naive about how Facebook Live would be used...."
"One evening in June 2016, Isaac Larian lay in bed at his Malibu, CA, home, unable to sleep. So the CEO of the world's largest private toy company, MGA Entertainment Inc, did what any insomniac toy CEO would do to unwind: He watched viral videos of kids unboxing toys on YouTube. Videos by youthful toy reviewers can get millions of views, and watching toys being freed from their packaging has become must-see television for many fans. This year, MGA's newest product, the L.O.L. Big Surprise has landed at the top of many 2017 best toy lists. It sold out at both Toys ""R"" Us and Amazon.com on the first day it went on sale -- again, without a single television spot. To Larian, whose company created such hits as Bratz and Lalaloopsy dolls, the success validates his decision several years ago to shift away from running spots during kids' television and cable programming and instead depend mainly on getting MGA's products into the hands of kid influencers on YouTube."
Snapchat makes things a lot tougher. Armstrong has followers there, too, but he doesn't know exactly how many. And because of the way the service works, it's hard for him to track how many people watch the sponsored messages he sprinkles into his posts. To capture the audience for a recent video for Toyota Motor Co, he had to set an alarm on his iPhone for 23 hours and 59 minutes after the post to remind him to take a screen shot of the number of viewers. He was cutting it close: Like most Snapchat posts, the video disappeared at the 24-hour mark, taking his proof with it. The company doesn't send executives to VidCon, the influencer conference in Anaheim, CA, where Instagram and its corporate parent, Facebook Inc, have a heavy presence. There's no special Snapchat team catering to the pitchmen and no easy way for the influencers to tell how many views they're getting, making it less obvious why the Lexuses of the world should pay them.
"The juggernaut that is the Minnesota high-school boys' hockey tournament has lately had to make room for a new tradition: the annual All Hockey Hair Team viral video.The first annual All Hockey Hair Team video was a poorly edited, tongue-in-cheek celebration of the hairstyles of the players, from mullets to man buns.During the televised broadcasts of the opening games of the high-school tournament in Minnesota, each player is introduced and skates toward the camera, helmet off and hair flowing.[...]I would have concerns that [a player is] thinking about things other than the game,"" Mark Manney, the boys' hockey director at Minnesota Hockey, the local affiliate of national hockey governing body USA Hockey. ""Is the sideshow gettin' too big?"" Mr. King reassured his viewers in that video.Because hockey hair is a commitment."
"When CNN acquired Casey Neistat's social app Beme last fall, the news organization said that by this summer, the pair would have a stand-alone media company focused on ""timely and topical video and empowering content creators to use technology to find their voice."" [...]rethinking news content for a much younger..."
When Facebook Inc wants to try something new, one of its first calls is to CNN. It was a key partner when Facebook introduced its news-reading app, Paper, in 2014. When the social network shuttered Paper soon after, transmogrifying it into a series of fast-loading News Feed stories called Instant Articles, CNN remained on board. And last year, CNN was one of the few parties to which it paid a nominal fee to produce clips of, say, election results being projected on the Empire State Building. But strain is showing in the relationship. Facebook's latest pitch to publishers such as CNN is for them to provide a regular stream of television-quality, edited, original videos that will give Mark Zuckerberg's company a chance to compete with YouTube and siphon some of the $70 billion pouring into television ads each year. In exchange, the publishers can share some Of the revenue for ads that roll in the middle of the videos. Facebook will control all the ad sales.
YouTube viewers world-wide are now watching more than 1 billion hours of videos a day, threatening to eclipse U.S. television viewership, a milestone fueled by the Google unit's aggressive embrace of artificial intelligence to recommend videos.YouTube's billion-hour mark underscores the wide lead of the 12-year-old platform in online video--threatening traditional television, which lacks similarly sophisticated tools.YouTube's success using tailor-made video lineups illustrates how technology companies can reshape media consumption into narrow categories of interests, a trend some observers find worrying.Google embeds YouTube videos in search results and pre-installs the YouTube app on its Android software, which runs 88% of smartphones, according to Strategy Analytics.[...]last year YouTube partnered with Google Brain, which develops advanced machine-learning software called deep neural networks, which have led to dramatic improvements in other fields, such as language translation.
  After news outlets highlighted such cases in recent weeks, some big advertisers reduced or pulled their spending from YouTube and the company promised changes to better police content and give marketers more transparency and control.
  A week after Google apologized for running customers' advertisements alongside objectionable videos, triggering a change in policy, its YouTube site is still rife with examples that are angering big advertisers and causing some to cut spending with the tech giant. Google's automated system placed ads for some of the world's biggest brands -- including Coca-Cola Co., Procter &amp; Gamble, Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. -- on five YouTube videos peddling racist and anti-Semitic content, according to a review by The Wall Street Journal.
"  For years, YouTube has served up almost every imaginable kind of video. The site's top trending attractions on a recent afternoon included clips of a gymnasium roof collapsing in the Czech Republic, a colossal alligator lumbering across a footpath in Florida, some North Korean refugees digging into American barbecue for the first time, and a guy demonstrating how to wash a car with a baby. Now, a dozen years after its creation and about a decade after its absorption into Google Inc, YouTube is on the verge of adding yet one more genre -- a category of programming that has long eluded it. YouTube is finally getting regular television. Subscribers will be able to watch YouTube television on smartphones, tablets, laptop computers - pretty much however they want. The mobile apps are designed to easily ""cast"" from smartphones to larger screens, perhaps even -- for older people -- actual television sets. Throughout the app, native YouTube content will be layered in alongside the network shows."
  HSBC Holdings PLC and L'Oreal SA reduced spending with the technology giant after news reports that Google regularly placed their ads on controversial websites or YouTube videos, including some made by supporters of terrorist groups such as Islamic State and a violent pro-Nazi faction. [...]with estimates showing spending on digital ads surpassing that on television ads last year in the U.S., increasing scrutiny from advertisers is forcing internet companies to take more responsibility for the content on which they run ads.
  In 2012, Google researchers found a whimsical way to show off the power of the company's artificial intelligence (AI) technology: They trained computers to recognize cats in YouTube videos. The project took years to pull off and required 16,000 computer processors to analyze 10 million images. That type of AI, known as deep learning, now powers Amazon.com's smart speaker Echo and Tesla's self-driving cars. While such software can seem magical, it still typically requires thousands of computers to spend months scanning millions of data points. Ben Vigoda, an MIT-trained computer scientist (and nephew of late actor Abe Vigoda), says he can cut out most of the grunt work and make AI projects doable for businesses without Google-level resources.
"  Mr. Taplin proposes some thought-provoking solutions to the challenge of getting people to pay for content: e.g., more robust guidelines from the Library of Congress on ""fair use"" (which is now a loophole for posting more than is ""fair"") and, in the music industry, the tiered release of songs so that creators can take in revenues before the songs appear on platforms such as Spotify."
  Selling ads against user-generated content was always a risky proposition, in which Google and its advertisers indulged with their eyes open on Google's YouTube platform. This predictable challenge has produced an alleged crisis for the internet, as businesses as diverse as Hyundai, McDonald's and L'Oreal march off in a huff and say they can no longer advertise on YouTube. That ads are ending up next to content they find inappropriate and offensive might seem a big yawn. Google's algorithms are good at picking out which viewers are likely to bite on which ads, then good at tracking these users across the web even when they linger on sites devoted to anti-Semitic rants or terrorism promotion.
"  ""The problem is thorny because not only is there such a long tail [of sites and videos], but there's so much subjectivity to what is or is not appropriate,"" said Adam Kleinberg, head of San Francisco ad agency Traction Corp. For years, advertisers have increased spending with Google, which helped pioneer the automated ad-buying system, called programmatic advertising, that gives marketers the reach and accuracy to target specific audiences on far corners of the Internet."
"  ""YouTube and even Disney have some blame in this situation,"" said Adam Kleinberg, head of San Francisco ad agency Traction Corp. ""YouTube is marketing their influencer network as a safe place for brands to interact . . . and [PewDiePie] is their biggest property."""
  Zero-rating involves internet service providers giving customers free data services, such as unlimited video streaming. Based on Mr. Pai's public statements and recent actions, the FCC chairman appears to oppose the Obama-era FCC judgment that the commission has the power to regulate internet service providers the way it regulates telecoms more broadly.
