  According to Mr. Norman, having direct access to Fullscreen's tools will help media buyers at various GroupM agencies evaluate which influencers might be right for their ad partners, based on the size of their followings, the kind of work they typically produce, and how their content resonates with their communities.
"  According to the blog post, Vessel Chief Technology Officer Richard Tom ""will be leading the charge on all things technology, product and team going forward,"" while Mr. Kilar's focus ""will be to ensure a smooth transition through the end of this year."""
"  According to the VAB, the closest comparison in television to the 36 million views that Fullscreen touted is the Nielsen metric called total audience, which rolls up how many times people are exposed to a show over a period of time. Like views, total audience doesn't filter out duplication. Since August, ""Pretty Little Liars"" has accumulated a total audience of over 61 million.\n"
  Activision Blizzard Inc., looking to draw more eyeballs and advertising dollars to its competitive-videogame content, plans next month to begin publishing daily live programming on Facebook Inc. The companies announced the collaboration Thursday at the NewFronts digital-media conference in New York, where Activision Blizzard pitched marketers on its business of competitive videogaming, also called e-sports.
  A fair number of publishing executives say they are now more bullish on platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and, in some cases, even Twitter when it comes to amassing video audiences. According to Scott Grimes, co-founder and nonexecutive chairman of the young male-oriented web company Woven Digital, publishers need help standing out amid the sea of YouTube stars.
"  Amid complaints from video creators that their content is being stolen and re-uploaded across Facebook, the company on Tuesday announced the release of a new rights management tool for video producers and companies that aims to combat the ""freebooting"" piracy issue."
  As competitive gaming grows more popular, the League of Legends Championship Series (LCS) is setting the pace. More than 330 million people watched some part of the league's four-week world championships last fall through channels like YouTube and gaming-video site Twitch. Bigger audiences and prizes are drawing a wave of outside investment, setting up a showdown between the league's past and its future. Since the fall, the money coming from outsiders, including veterans of the US pro sports industry, has begun to professionalize the league in ways big and small. The changes have rankled team owners who don't have access to that kind of cash, but the new money is also forcing tough conversations about how to run a pro league in which many players are teens. The arrival, of mainstream investors should make the industry seem safer to big advertisers, says Steve Arhancet, co-owner of the LCS squad Team Liquid, adding that he's unconcerned by the prospect of new money changing the league.
  Big media distributors such as AT&amp;T, which owns DirecTV and delivers movies and television shows to 100 million subscribers of its wireless, Internet, and video services, have argued for years over which can best withstand the disruption brought about by online services like Netflix: Content providers? Or cable and satellite operators? With his surprise $85 billion takeover bid for Time Warner, Randall Stephenson, AT&amp;T's CEO, is betting that the companies that will thrive in a world of streaming and smartphones must be both. The future of mobile is video, and the future of video is mobile, Stephenson said on October 22 after announcing the deal. Already, AT&amp;T and Time Warner have separately been working to make it easier for consumers to watch more movies and television shows online. Some analysts are skeptical of AT&amp;T's rationale, pointing to Time Warner's disastrous merger with America Online in 2000.
"  ""Brands are saying, 'Let's make sure we are maximizing our spending and reaching new people.'"" Some advertisers who have worked with MCNs on custom ad efforts involving digital stars over the past few years say that these campaigns have required much more time and energy than buying pre-roll video ads programmatically or working with an individual influencer."
  By 2020, video will account for about 75% of the world's mobile traffic, according to an estimate from networking-equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. Unless you have an unlimited data plan, it's a good idea to save live video for when you're on Wi-Fi.
  Facebook Inc. has inked contracts with nearly 140 media companies and celebrities to create videos for its nascent live-streaming service, as the social network positions itself to cash in on a lucrative advertising market it has yet to tap--and keep its 1.65 billion monthly users engaged.
"  Fullscreen will also feature ""Shane &amp; Friends,"" a celebrity talk show built around YouTuber Shane Dawson , and ""Kingdom Geek,"" which will feature Web video personalities Andre Meadows and Katie Wilson dissecting pop culture. Besides originals, the service will showcase older TV series like the aforementioned ""Dawson's Creek,"" MTV's late '90s animated hit ""Daria"" and former NBC Saturday morning staple ""Saved by the Bell."
  Google has acquired FameBit, a technology startup that helps marketers connect with digital influencers, in an effort to bolster branded content deals in online video, including on Google's video platform YouTube.
  In an effort ramp up its outreach to marketers, Studio71, a multichannel network that produces web video content, named Matt Seiler as president of marketing solutions, a newly created role.
"  Kevin Reilly, president of Time Warner's TBS and TNT networks, points to ""Super Deluxe,"" a new outfit the company set up to make short-form mobile content--the theme, he said, is ""subversive comedy""--for social channels like Facebook and Snapchat and incubate long-form content that might get on TV. Emerging ""virtual"" cable providers--such as Sling TV, Sony and soon Hulu--present a big opportunity, but to really win over cord-cutters media companies and their investors will have to accept that not every one of the TV channels they own will make it into the ""skinny bundles"" of the future."
  LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.--While Netflix Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. are increasingly producing their own premium content, YouTube Chief Executive Susan Wojcicki said the world's largest video site is mainly focused on being a platform for other creators.
"  Last week, the executive body for the European Union proposed plans that could make content on video-on-demand services from national broadcasters and a variety of streaming platforms available to all member countries, potentially enabling a hit show to debut around the continent at once. ""Release schedules for programs have been set in stone for decades,"" said Michael Goodman, director of digital media strategies at the market research firm Strategy Analytics."
  Lilly Singh, a 27-year-old YouTube personality, has delighted teenagers for six years from the comfort of her couch. With almost 8 million subscribers following Singh's main channel for free, YouTube decided to invest in the Internet star when it heard she was making a documentary, A Trip to Unicorn Island. Google, which bought the video-sharing Web site in 2006 for $1.65 billion, plans to make YouTube more profitable by creating a revenue stream with Red. Like Netflix and Amazon.com, Google is offering original programs, but instead of Hollywood talent, Red is banking on the star power of homegrown personalities such as Singh to persuade fans to sign up.
  Magna Global, the ad buying arm of Interpublic Group of Cos., has signed an upfront advertising deal with YouTube, shifting spending from television ads in an effort to reach consumers more efficiently.
  Major league sports teams are recruiting a new kind of player: one who can score with a joystick. In the past two months, Manchester City and West Ham United, two of the top English Premier League soccer teams, have signed professional video gamers to represent the clubs when playing FIFA, a hugely popular Electronic Arts soccer video game. E-sports is now a $500 million industry, according to Deloitte, with a mostly millennial audience. Not long ago, those folks would have been fans of real-life sports; now they may not even subscribe to cable. Instead, they're more likely to interact online through fantasy sports or video games. Signing video players is an extension of the move over the past few years to professionalize e-sports.
  Mr. Banner said he's hoping the marketing blitz, as well as the Super Bowl association, will help consumers make the connection that PepsiCo is not just a soda company, but also owns brands ranging from Sun Chips to Sabra Hummus.
"  Mr. Neistat, who recently snowboarded around the snowy streets of Manhattan, said he and an assistant spent the first 36 hours after a video of that adventure went viral combing Facebook and YouTube for ""freebooters"" stealing his content. Mr. Neistat sat down with CMO Today to discuss his career as a video creator and entrepreneur, and how companies can make better branded content with YouTubers."
"  Ms. Rae, who first found fame on YouTube with her comedy series ""The Misadventures of Awkward Black Girl,"" is about to launch the show ""Insecure"" on HBO. The show is part of a growing number of shows focused on black characters, including ABC's ""Black-ish"" and Fox's ""Empire."""
  [...]one of the first Revelmode projects will be an animated series featuring numerous members of the team, Maker Studios said.
  On Monday, Mr. Steinberg will debut a new subscription video-on-demand service for Cheddar priced at $6.99 a month, powered by IAC/InterActiveCorp's video platform Vimeo.
  Passing through a convention floor bustling with vendors, businesses and a host of opportunities for selfies, fans perused books published by CBS Corp.'s Simon &amp; Schuster Inc., which has produced many of the YouTubers' books.
  [...]protecting against data collection is not as big of an issue when it comes to YouTube videos featuring paying sponsors, said Mr. Collins.
  [...]research firms like Nielsen and comScore are constantly evolving their digital ad tracking products.
  Ryder Carroll is a bike-sharing, glasses-wearing product designer from Brooklyn, NY. Early in March, they met in a crowded coffee shop. No one recognized the 35-year-old, even though he's a cult Internet celebrity: Carroll invented the Bullet Journal system, a method for note-taking and day planning that people who love paper and pens swear by. Carroll's How to Bullet Journal instructional videos have been viewed more than 2 million times on YouTube. Devotees make their own videos and post journal photos to Instagram, where a search for #bulletjournal returns more than 66,000 results. Carroll didn't consider promoting his method -- or even naming it -- until he offered help to a co-worker overwhelmed by planning her wedding.
  Smosh Live, which was filmed live in a YouTube production studio in Los Angeles at 5 p.m. PST on Friday, peaked at nearly 58,000 concurrent viewers, said Keith Richman, president of the digital media company Defy Media, which operates Smosh.
  Some marketers still view digital media and TV as completely separate entities that warrant separate budgets. [...]some TV ad buyers may not even have the ability to move money from a TV network to YouTube because those budgets are managed separately.
  Suddenly, it seems, the whole world is live-streaming. Thanks to Facebook, Google (YouTube), Amazon.com (Twitch), and Twitter (Periscope), anyone even vaguely interested in broadcasting live video online can figure out how to do it. The sales pitches from these companies are simple: stream first, ask questions later. And as with the heyday of blogging a decade ago, the live-streaming gold rush means there's money for anyone selling shovels. In this case, that translates to the technical hardware, software, and know-how needed to make amateur live video look more professional. One of the early leaders in this growing subset of America's online video ad market is the aptly named Livestream, a Brooklyn, NY, startup that's raised $17 million since its 2007 founding.
  The app rocketed to the top of the rankings in Apple's app store in early 2013 within weeks of its debut, resonating with young people who were drawn to the short, snappy format.
  The Beme app will be shuttered, with the company's 11 employees joining CNN to form a separate technology unit focusing on the new media venture and CNN's wider mobile video efforts.
  The bulk of the money is going to media companies such as BuzzFeed and New York Times Co. However, about 15% of the recipients named in the document are internet celebrities more typically seen on Alphabet Inc.'s YouTube, Twitter Inc.'s video-sharing platform Vine, disappearing photo app Snapchat or Facebook's Instagram.
  [...]the company has taken on an array of new roles in the past few years -- raising the question of where the service fits into a world awash with streaming video. To understand what YouTube is and what it wants to become, The Wall Street Journal's Dennis Berman spoke with the company's chief executive officer, Susan Wojcicki.
  The European Union's executive branch this week is expected to propose a broad package of copyright reforms that, among other things, would help musicians and their record companies earn more by making streaming services such as Alphabet Inc.'s YouTube beef up their ability to fight piracy.
  The eye-popping funding speaks to the power of original web content aimed at audiences that aren't typically served by traditional media outside of Adult Swim, coupled with the power of using social media ad targeting and digital influencers.
  The facility, located in Silicon Beach, Santa Monica, will house content production capabilities to strengthen the quality and turnaround time of influencers' content, business support services, and conference rooms to conduct business meetings.
  The initiative, dubbed Roker Labs, has resulted in the formation of something of a multi-channel network for live streaming video; the venture has helped develop shows, use data to inform programming, and even sell ad opportunities to marketers.
  The list reviewed by the Journal also includes the Metropolitan Museum of Art and American Museum of Natural History in New York; internet celebrities such as Logan Paul, Andrew Bachelor and Lele Pons; DJs Armin Van Buuren and Hardwell; and sports teams such as FC Barcelona.
"  [...]there is a ""high demand"" for advertisers to have their messages reach individuals in places online that they are turning to for information about the election, he said."
  The series was commissioned for Kimberly-Clark by Shift2, a branded entertainment agency based in Toronto that specializes in helping marketers connect with millennials, and is produced by Smokebomb Entertainment, a production company that works frequently with Shift2. Since it made its debut in 2014, 72 episodes have been released and most are about five minutes long.
  Translink Capital partner Eric Hsia sits on the company's board, as does Jun Iwasaki, the president and chief executive of Japanese videogame maker GungHo Online Entertainment.
"  Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the onus is on creators to flag infringing content to companies, who are obligated to respond to those ""take-down requests."" [...]of the case, YouTube was pushed to develop its ""Content ID"" matching technology that helps screen out copyright-infringing content."
  Unlike social media-focused ad agencies, or even boutique firms that specialize in brokering deals between brands and small groups of influencers, these newer entrants are focused on software and data platforms geared for helping ad buyers find influencers who might be appropriate for a particular advertiser.
  Verizon Communications once aspired to be the Comcast of mobile, streaming movies and television shows to its 107 million monthly subscribers. Now it wants to be YouTube, feeding short video clips to millennials, who spend more hours each day glued to the tiny screens of their phones than they spend sitting in front of a television. Verizon's Go90, named after people's tendency to flip their phone sideways to watch movies and videos, premiered as an app for Apple and Android phones in October and is avail able to customers of other carriers. In a move that may tip the playing field, Verizon announced in early February that data usage on Go90 won't count toward customers' caps. Using the trove of information it has collected on its wireless subscribers, including age, gender, general interests, and location, Verizon says it can help marketers flash their ads to the right people at the right time.
"  [...]Vine lacks an ad product like Twitter's ""promoted tweet"" or Snapchat's sponsored geofilters, meaning that if a brand wants Vine as part of an ad campaign, it has to work with individual creators (or make their own Vines and pay to promote them on Twitter). Misha Talavera, co-founder at the social influencer agency NeoReach, said that in the last quarter, while marketing spend for social media ""influencers"" increased, demand for branded content on Vine has steadily decreased."
  When NBC and Fox created Hulu 10 years ago, they offered customers something they'd never had before: last night's television shows available over the Internet for free. It presaged the future of television -- online and on-demand, no VCR or DVR required. By the time Mike Hopkins took over as Hulu's CEO in 2013, that early advantage had been mostly squandered. Netflix was laying the groundwork for a global television network, and Amazon.com was about to release a slate of video programs. Now Hopkins hopes his company -- owned by Comcast, 21st Century Fox, Walt Disney, and Time Warner -- can again lead the industry by becoming the first streaming service to couple live television with a wide library of on-demand programs that goes beyond what traditional cable offers.
  [...]YouTube is the dominant force for user-generated video and offers ad-supported music videos and even feature-length movies.
  YouTube this year has been meeting with major record companies and artist-management firms, asking which acts they want help developing and then offering financial support for custom-tailored marketing campaigns--something it hasn't done in the past for musicians.
