"During the July filming for ""First Day,"" a comedy series for teenage girls, a woman with a spreadsheet and a red pen sat in a director's chair carefully checking off boxes. Web shows like ""First Day"" could provide a template for TV's future that harkens back to the era when advertisers not only sponsored but helped to create, cast and script ""soap operas"" and variety shows."
ESPN said Thursday that it has made its flagship cable sports network available live on Apple Inc.'s mobile devices for subscribers to pay-TV service from Time Warner Cable Inc., Verizon Communications Inc. and Bright House Networks.
For the bloggers who use these sites, the exchange of copyrighted material and intellectual property--other people's photographs, music, lists of all the amazing things you ate for lunch--isn't just an aspect of the form, it's practically the entire business model. No, the Internet police probably aren't going to be kicking down your door to ask questions about that copyrighted photo of Ke$ha you just posted, but when it's almost as easy to do things the right way, why not at least try? It's a willful ignorance, says Bert Krages, a Portland, Ore., lawyer who specializes in intellectual property issues, and has written Legal Handbook for Photographers:
"""[...] frankly, 'hundreds' making a living on YouTube isn't enough and in 2011 we know we can and should do more to help our partners grow,"" he wrote. Since launching in March 2007, New York-based Next New Networks has built a platform for developing, packaging and building audiences around original web video programming."
Google has struck deals with media companies such as RTL Group, IAC and News Corp. as well as online-video creators to produce original content for YouTube in the hopes that people will want to watch the Web shows on their Internet-connected TVs, people familiar with the matter have said.
"Google Inc. on Friday announced the creation of around 100 online video ""channels"" on its YouTube website that will have new original programming involving celebrities such as such as singer Madonna, rapper Jay-Z, actor Ashton Kutcher and former NBA star Shaquille O'Neal."
Hardcore fantasy fans seeking to immerse themselves in their favorite fictional worlds are swapping tips on how to cook dishes like this grilled snake with fiery mustard sauce from the book 'A Feast for Crows.'
Large Internet properties have been forging partnerships with media companies for years, seeking a steady supply of content to satisfy users' interests in topics as granular as local news and obscure health conditions.
"Many brand advertisers were previously scared off by the large amount of user-generated, lower quality content on YouTube, said David Cohen, an executive vice president at Universal McCann, a media-buying agency owned by Interpublic Group of Cos. But in recent years, YouTube has accumulated higher-quality video and its new channels strategy ""is a clear signal of its commitment to creating immersive and engaging original content,"" he said."
Michael Green, chief executive of The Collective, the management company that represents show creator Dane Boedigheimer, says items like hats, T-shirts and novelty items--he wants to develop a product as ubiquitous as the singing fish people mounted on their walls several yearsback--are in the works and will go on sale by year end.
"Sam Schechner Technology and media companies are racing to create Internet-video hits closer to the scale of traditional TV, as consumers start to watch more video on Internet-connected televisions and tablet computers. Shows that have their first appearance--or ""window""--online also can help Internet companies vie for viewers with traditional video distributors, like cable and satellite companies."
The initiative also is aimed at positioning YouTube for the rise of televisions and cable set-top boxes that let people watch online video in their living rooms YouTube won't abandon the way it has made money--namely, by identifying popular user-generated videos and offering to share ad revenue with the creators, people familiar with the matter have said.
The number of U.S. households that pay for TV service from cable, satellite or phone companies dipped for the first time last year after decades of growth, with 335,000 fewer households paying for service between the first and the third quarters, according to research firm SNL Kagan.
The upgrade is part of a broader YouTube overhaul that is in the works, as the video site attempts to broaden its focus from homemade videos to include professional entertainment content and position itself for the rise of Internet-connected televisions that allow people to easily watch online video in their living rooms.
YouTube is still in the process of designing the channels and in recent weeks held meetings with Hollywood talent agencies such as Creative Artists Agency, William Morris Endeavor and International Creative Management to discuss the possibility of their clients creating YouTube channels, people familiar with the matter said. In addition to increasing the average time a YouTube user spends on the site, which stands at about 15 minutes a day, the moves are aimed at attracting new ad dollars, including a chunk from the $70 billion U.S. television-ad market, said people familiar with the matter.
"YouTube proved a powerful catalyst for creativity; it gave the world Justin Bieber (but don't hold that against it!) but also improbable success stories like the Lonely Island, a comedy troupe of three guys in their 20s who parlayed making goofy homemade videos with their buddies into hit albums and gigs on ""Saturday Night Live"" (a show that has made television history by relying on the comic energy of several generations of ambitious 20-somethings)."
YouTube, which is trying to become a next-generation video provider overseeing free online channels with professional-grade shows, is expected to give some content creators 55% of the resulting ad revenue after YouTube recoups the cash advances it paid them, some of the people said.
  Deborah Lloyd, creative director of Kate Spade New York, has turned around Kate Spade by infusing it with her own quirky sensibility. A brand once best known for minimalist, angular handbags coveted by 40-year-old suburban moms today has a hipper take aimed at urban professionals between the ages of 26 and 36. Sales have doubled to $185 million since Lloyd arrived three years ago, helping make Kate Spade the best performer of Liz Claiborne's collection of brands. Lloyd and Craig Leavitt, the company's chief executive officer, devised a strategy that included bringing out more collections each year and expanding overseas, especially in China and Japan. Lloyd and Leavitt have boosted marketing to a younger crowd with the requisite Facebook page, Twitter feed, and YouTube videos.
"  Even in the present era of 10,000 niches, mass customization, and the ""long tail"" -- of companies selling fewer items from a far vaster inventory -- people are, arguably, governed more than ever by what's popular. Thanks to the Internet's ability to rank everything, one can dwell almost exclusively in the world of trending Twitter topics, of top-reviewed restaurants, of Amazon.com bestselling books, of the cutest cute-cat YouTube videos. News sites all feature tallies of the Most Read, Most E-mailed, and Most Commented On articles -- creating a self-reinforcing conversation. This article presents the results of a survey on persons, products, or trends that experienced the greatest commercial growth or surge in popularity during 2010, or between last year and this one. The entries are plotted based on a relevant number along a scale beginning at zero and running to 14,594,874,110,347."
  Founded in 2009, Kickstarter is an online fundraising platform for creative projects. Musicians, designers, filmmakers, and other artists craft a short pitch, usually a video, post it on the site, and set a fundraising target and a time frame. If the project meets its goal, Kickstarter, a for-profit company, takes a 5% cut and the creator gets the rest. Kickstarter has emerged as a legitimate option for financing independent films, where a six-figure project is on the low end. So far, the company has raised more than $21 million from nearly 240,000 backers for 2,443 films, according to co-founder Yancey Strickler. He says six films have crossed the $100,000 mark. Independence is one of Kickstarter's main advantages over the typical filmmaker fundraising road show.
  In 2006, Adam Beguelin sold his startup, a video-search site called Truveo, to AOL for $50 million. Then he decided to pack up his family and move to Vietnam for a year of kite-surfing and cultural exploration. He is now back in the US and working on Sensr.net, a site that makes it easy to view, share, and store video feeds from network cameras, which connect to the Internet without need for a PC. Sensr monitors video from such cameras using any Internet-connected device. The site stores an unlimited amount of low-quality video and for a small monthly fee will start keeping high-definition feeds later this year. Beguelin says his service, which will also make it easy to share videos on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter, is about socializing these devices.
  Math was something Salman Khan understood. It was one of his majors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, along with computer science and electrical engineering. He is now a quasi-religious figure in a country desperate for a math Moses. His free Web site, dubbed the Khan Academy, may well be the most popular educational site in the world. He has posted more than 2,300 videos, beginning with simple addition and going all the way to subjects such as Green's theorem, normally found in a college calculus syllabus. His program has also spread from the homes of online learners to classrooms around the world, to the point that, in at least a few classrooms, it has supplanted textbooks. Khan is more than just popular. He is a darling of America's amateur educational elite who write checks and invite him to speak at their functions. Many of his followers are tech leaders, who understand more than most how dire America's standing in math education has become and what it may mean.
  Online ads have been around since the dawn of the Web, but only in recent years have they become the rapturous life dream of Silicon Valley. Arriving on the heels of Facebook have been blockbusters such as the game maker Zynga and coupon peddler Groupon. Once again, 11 years after the dot-com-era peak of the Nasdaq, Silicon Valley is reaching the saturation point with business plans that hinge on crossed fingers as much as anything else. There's always someone out there crying bubble, it seems; the trick is figuring out when it's easy money -- and when it's a shell game. No one is suggesting that the top tier of ad-centric companies is going down should the bubble pop. As for the next tier or two down, where a profusion of startups is piling into every possible niche involving social networking and ads -- the fate of those companies is anybody's guess.
  ReCaptcha still provides more than half of the 280 million captchas solved each day and has had to steadily ratchet up the difficulty. People have really seen the step-up in difficulty, says Tyler Paxton, a University of Michigan business school graduate and part of a recent wave of entrepreneurs who think they have a better alternative. The solution dreamt up by Paxton and his business school friends Reid Tatoris and Benjamin Blackmer: Mini-games. Their startup, aptly named Are You a Human, has created 10 simple games that, they say, are easy for humans to solve but almost impossible for computers. Are You a Human plans to make money by charging advertisers or Web sites to design games that integrate their brands, starting at about $25 per 1,000 games played.
  This year, Canoe Ventures, the $150 million effort launched by Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications, Charter Communications, Cablevision Systems, and Bright House Networks, finished building a platform that allows advertisers to include interactive elements in commercials -- with Canoe collecting a fee for each ad campaign sold. There's just one problem: The Web got there first. Even if interactivity fails, Canoe has a back-up plan: video-on-demand. In the past 12 months, television viewers have streamed 8 billion videos on demand in the US, says researcher SNL Kagan. Each of these streams can be embedded with so-called dynamic advertising, commercials that can be updated and refreshed over time. Canoe CEO Kathy Timko, who acknowledges the cable companies that bankrolled Canoe want to see results, is hopeful the interactive spots now starting to run on cable networks AMC, E!, and Style Network will draw more advertisers to the technology.
"  Using a palm-size MicroConsole adapter hooked up to the television and home network, a person can play ""in the cloud"" over the Internet, with the games actually running on powerful servers that might be 1,000 miles away. OnLive has the potential to be disruptive, maybe even revolutionary, technology. The $99 adapter plugs into a high-definition port in the television, and comes with a wireless handheld controller and one game. The system does not work over Wi-Fi, so a hardwired Internet connection is required. Hard-core gamers debate whether OnLive's response times are fast enough and whether graphics look as good as they do on a dedicated console. Because OnLive is a service and not just hardware, it offers some cool additional features."
  Where's My Water?, the new mobile game from Walt Disney, stars Swampy, an alligator who lives in an underground sewer. Players swipe their fingers across an iPhone screen to guide water into his tub while dodging toxic sludge and collecting rubber duckies as prizes. With the 99 cents app, also available for the iPad, the House of Mickey is attempting to do something it has never done before: spin a multimillion-dollar franchise out of a character that made his debut on a 3.5-inch screen. Disney already has Swampy's career plotted out. A 12-episode animated series will air on Disney.com and on YouTube sometime in the first quarter of 2012, part of a recent deal that will have the two companies spend as much as $15 million on co-branded content.
