"At issue is the widespread presence of copyright music and video content on MySpace. In the suit, filed in U.S. District Court for California's Central District, Vivendi SA's Universal dismisses the frequently used label ""user-generated content"" -- alleging that much of the material on MySpace is stolen from copyright holders. Universal executives have been outraged by the leak. In a recent interview, Antonio Reid, chairman of Universal's Island Def Jam Music Group, said next week's debut of the Jay-Z album would likely be ""devastated"" by the leaks. ""I'm sure it's cut into our sales, and not by a small amount,"" Mr. Reid said. ""Even if it [sells] a million units it's not what it should have been."""
"Comedy Central, part of MTV Networks, has bought the TV and digital rights to the animated series, ""Lil' Bush: Resident of the United States,"" and will co-produce it with Amp'd Mobile and the show's creator Donick Cary, a TV writer who has written for ""Late Show with David Letterman"" and ""The Simpsons."" Comedy Central plans to air the half-hour show weekly beginning next summer during the popular 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. time slot, possibly right after ""South Park"" and before ""The Daily Show with Jon Stewart."" ""Lil' Bush"" will no doubt raise the profile of Amp'd. Comedy Central, however, says its decision to air ""Lil' Bush"" wasn't influenced by MTV Networks' ownership in Amp'd or Messrs. Messrs. [Phillippe Dauman]'s and [Thomas Dooley]'s past investment in the carrier. ""Washington is like a school yard,"" full of petty and juvenile behavior, says Mr. Cary, whose studio in Bulgaria does the animation work. Mr. Cary presented clips of ""Lil' Bush"" to Comedy Central while producing another show for the channel called ""The Naked Trucker and T-Bones"" that's scheduled to air in January."
"David Letterman's raw, heartfelt post-9/11 monologue? Removed at the request of CBS. Whatever Mr. [Bill Simmons] billed as ""the second greatest YouTube clip of all-time unless you're a Yankee fan""? Gone -- Major League Baseball's new-media arm objected. The trailer for ""Karate Kid III""? Removed for violating YouTube's terms of use. A clip from the ancient proto-reality-TV show ""Battle of the Network Stars""? Ditto. A clip of great baseball fights from ESPN, Mr. Simmons' employer? Going, going, gone. YouTube is ingenious. It's a pleasure. In some cases it's clearly been a boon for content creators. (Take the ""Saturday Night Live"" skit ""Lazy Sunday,"" an early YouTube favorite now available from NBC, or OK Go's video for ""Here It Goes Again,"" still available on YouTube.) There is genuinely popular material on it that isn't violating copyright, a claim that was hard to believe when made by Napster and its ilk. (Take this quietly haunting clip, seen more than 3.5 million times.) It can be argued that it serves a social good. (The FBI and the Los Angeles Police Department are investigating two officers for allegedly beating a suspect last summer -- in large part because of a video that's been seen hundreds of thousands of times on YouTube.) Certainly it's become a media force in its own right. (The Republicans might still control the Senate if not for Virginia Sen. George Allen's ""macaca"" remark, widely disseminated on YouTube.) Music videos don't belong on YouTube -- they're entire works of art in their own right, and a market for them exists. (Witness iTunes.) But beyond that, where's the harm? It's risible to suggest that content owners are hurt by videos of teenagers lip-synching to hip-hop songs, that the market for sports DVD is destroyed by fans being allowed to relive a team's great moment, or that artists reusing footage of some famous televised event destroys interest in documentaries. Mr. Letterman's post-9/11 monologue resonates for Mr. Simmons and others five years later -- shouldn't it be available online? I couldn't find it; a CBS spokeswoman said she doesn't think it's available. It should be: It's part of our common culture, along with those big sports moments, bits of televised history and famous TV moments. Isn't there some social value to making these bits of video simply and easily available for anyone and everyone to view, reinterpret and comment on?"
"For advertisers, Web television delivers a dream audience of dedicated fans. ""The fact they've gone and sought it out [online] indicates they're pretty loyal, passionate viewers of a show,"" says Mark Simmons, national manager of advertising strategy and media for Toyota, which advertises on many of Disney's online shows. ""It's a step beyond appointment viewing."" Toyota says it's too early to tell how the online shows will affect the company's relationship with Disney, or its regular TV advertising. The car maker also won't disclose what it's paying for the online ads. Disney hasn't set regular rates for the shows, but they are likely to be considerably less than the $550,000 to $650,000 the network charges for a 30-second ad on the broadcast version of ""Lost"" or ""Desperate Housewives."" Fans make the same argument. For instance, an avid viewer of the mystery series ""Veronica Mars"" has created an interactive map showing locations from the program. Why? ""It's another way of generating publicity for 'Veronica Mars,' and we're constantly on the bubble in terms of ratings,"" says the map's creator, a 40-year-old college professor who prefers that her name not be used."
"IT MIGHT NOT qualify as an art form, but it's a format that's on the rise on the Internet: the fake movie trailer that twists an existing movie into a completely different genre. Through incongruous music and editing tricks, ""Psycho"" appears to be a romantic comedy and ""West Side Story"" looks like a slasher flick. The clips have become calling cards of sorts for artists and editors hoping to get noticed. Patrick De Nicola, a 21-year-old junior at Boston's Emerson College, says he's been fielding emails from television networks and comedy clubs since putting one online two weeks ago."
"""It's such a mess because the [entertainment companies] have all of these valuable assets that are just locked up with so many people who need to sign off on them,"" says YouTube Chief Executive Chad Hurley. ""I don't know what it requires, if the government needs to be involved,"" Mr. Hurley laughs. ""I don't know."" Clips from TV shows present similar copyright challenges. A show such as the hit medical drama ""ER,"" for example, has dozens of rights holders. Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. owns the majority of the show, with co-creators Steven Spielberg and Michael Crichton having minority stakes. The studio licenses ""ER"" to General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal, Time Warner's Turner Broadcasting System for cable repeats and to local stations for weekend airings. Then there are the actors in every episode and details such as the music, which in most cases is purchased with broadcast rights only. Sorting out this rat's nest can take years. It took NBC Universal more than two years, for example, to clear the rights necessary to make the first two seasons of ""Miami Vice"" available on DVD. YouTube's challenges parallel those stirred up by virtually every new entertainment medium to come along in recent years, including DVDs, digital tracks sold by Apple Computer Inc.'s iTunes online music store, satellite radio, cellphone ring tones and online music subscription services. ""It's almost like technology has pushed far beyond the business practices and the law, and now everything needs to kind of catch up,"" says Chris Maxcy, YouTube's business development vice president."
"It's the next iteration of the burgeoning self-help industry: teaching people the obvious. After the success of do-it-yourself books and TV shows that offer expert advice on everything from baking your own wedding cake to remodeling a four-story home, a number of new Web sites are hoping to make money sticking with the basics. On eHow.com, one of the most popular topics is ""How to Boil an Egg"" -- broken down into six steps of written instructions. Videos at ViewDo.com, launched this summer, address such matters as how to peel and slice an apple. WikiHow.com provides a written tutorial on playing ""Hide and Go Seek."" (Step Three: ""Determine who will be 'It.'. . . Use 'One Potato, Two Potato' or similar method."") In many cases, the obvious is proving popular. On VideoJug, a lesson in ""How to Brush Your Teeth"" ranks well above ""How to Make Chicken Jalfrezi"" on the site's ""Most Viewed"" list. The site's video on ""How to Fold a T-Shirt in Two Seconds"" has been viewed nearly 40,000 times. The current version is a seven-step, 850-word guide, with five ""warnings,"" including one about peanut allergies, and 13 additional ""tips,"" such as ""spread peanut butter on both bread slices"" to prevent a ""jelly breach."""
"Moreover, [Google]'s huge investment in a site exclusively devoted to video (the YouTube acquisition is the largest in the company's history), is seen as a sign that Google has ambitions to dominate the field of video search much in the way it has done text. That's likely to set off a race among Google's competitors to stake out the market -- often deploying cutting-edge technology that they hope will give them an edge. ""Google's acquisition of YouTube marks a turning point,"" says Tim Tuttle, vice president of AOL Video, who says AOL is now trying to carve out its own niche in the space by searching across as many different sources of video as possible -- not just those it hosts. U.S. Internet users streamed more than seven billion videos in July, according to comScore Networks Inc. MySpace.com captured the largest share, followed by Yahoo and YouTube. But when measured by overall traffic, YouTube holds the top spot, with 46% of visits among the top sites tracked by market researcher Hitwise. ""There is no Google or Yahoo of video search,"" says Brian Haven, an analyst at market researcher Forrester Research. ""But with the content exploding and the momentum so strong, there is no way around it happening."" Other technologies that are still being tested include facial-recognition software and the ability to tag different frames in a clip to help search within videos. People who upload videos have their own complaints. Kevin Nalty, a health-care marketer from Doylestown, Pa., says figuring out which of his videos will show up where is a guessing game because the sites are ""bloated"" with inventory. As a result, the 39-year-old tries to label his videos with as many peripherally related words he can think of, including misspellings. By labeling one recent video documenting his attempt to tape wheels onto his daughter's sneakers with the word ""Healies"" -- a misspelling of ""Heelys,"" the popular sneakers with retractable wheels -- he was able to climb higher in various video- search results."
"Much as with pitching traditional journalists, the key with blogging is to have something to say beyond just ""buy my product."" Mark Hughes, author of ""Buzzmarketing,"" calls this ""story wrapping."" Says Mr. Hughes: ""No one is going to talk about the guy who cleans gutters because there is no inherent story value. But they might talk about the guy who cleans gutters who wears a tuxedo."" It paid off. In recent months, Gopher State Taxi has routinely popped first on Google's sponsored link for core keywords, including: ""Minneapolis, airport, taxi."" Mr. [Kenny Kormendy] says his business has grown to a network of nearly three dozen cabs and he is off welfare. He estimates his total payout to Google is about $175 to $205 monthly, based on how many clicks his ads get. ""People with cellphones on planes can find me,"" he says. ""Almost every time I ask someone, they tell me it was on the Internet. And nine times out of 10 it's from Google. I don't have $50,000 to compete with [bigger taxi companies]. But with what I create off the Internet, I can blow them away."" Beyond that, it's critical to make your Web site search-friendly, or search-optimal, for certain keywords. In the early days, search optimization was largely a matter of inserting enough important keywords into your Web site that it would become visible to search engines. In some cases, this still works. Mr. Hughes, the author of ""Buzzmarketing,"" also does speaking for a living. He wanted to pit himself as a viable alternative for people looking to book Malcolm Gladwell, the best-selling author of ""The Tipping Point"" and ""Blink."" So Mr. Hughes created a Web page within his own site, buzzmarketing.com, that compares ""Speaker Malcolm Gladwell vs. Business Speaker Mark Hughes."" By using the words ""Malcolm Gladwell speaker"" roughly every 300 words on that page, a link to his comparison is now usually among those that pop up on the first search page of Google when you type the words: ""Malcolm Gladwell speaker."" Soon after that page went up, Mr. Hughes says, he got a $17,000 speaking gig from a company that located him that way. (Says Mr. Gladwell of Mr. Hughes's efforts: ""How could I not be flattered?"")"
"New York -- EVERYBODY'S TALKING about YouTube -- and not always nicely, either. Doug Morris, who runs Universal Music, gave a speech the other day in which he proclaimed that the 19-month-old online video-sharing Web site owes his conglomerate ""tens of millions of dollars"" for allowing copyrighted music videos to be posted without permission. Mr. Morris's shot across the bow was quickly followed by the announcement that Warner Music, Universal's smarter competitor, has struck a deal allowing YouTube, which receives 100 million hits a day, to show its videos in return for a chunk of ad revenue. Says Warner Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr.: ""Consumer-empowering destinations like YouTube have created a two-way dialogue that will transform entertainment and media."" In recent months, jazz-loving friends have been sending me YouTube links to videos by Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and other celebrated artists, most of them drawn from films of the '30s and '40s and TV shows of the '50s and '60s. Some of this material is available on DVD, but most of it lingered in limbo until Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, YouTube's co-founders, made it possible for anyone with a computer to post and view video clips at will. Fascinated by the links unearthed by my friends, I spent the better part of a long weekend trolling through YouTube in search of similar material. When I was done, I'd found hundreds of videos, some extremely rare and all compulsively watchable, posted by collectors from all over the world."
"Teenagers have begun posting audition tapes on YouTube and MySpace for a series called ""The New 22,"" which its creator, production company Evolution Entertainment describes as a younger version of ""The View."" The casting call was placed through koldCast.com, a new site launched by Irvine, Calif., product-placement company EMmerzion Worldwide to let actors post online auditions. In exchange, the company gets dibs on selling product placements in movies and TV shows that use actors found through the service. Jessie Bronfman, a 25-year-old Woodmere, N.Y., resident who wants to be a TV host, has applied online for a video-jockey position and is hoping to score a role in ""The New 22."" She spends at least an hour a day searching for new online auditions through Craigslist, YouTube and Google, then cultivates her online network of friends who vote for her in video contests and help her get higher ""hit counts"" for audition videos."
The agreement, to take effect before the end of the year, illustrates YouTube's push to tackle the thorny copyright issues facing it and other sites that allow users to upload video content. YouTube is developing an automated system to digitally identify copyrighted music and video uploaded by its users. It will then give a percentage of revenue from any ads that appear alongside those videos on YouTube's Web site, if their owners have agreements with YouTube and opt for that rather than having the videos removed.
The explosive growth of Internet video is allowing people not only to find an audience for their amateur productions. Now they can actually earn money from them. San Diego-based Eefoof Inc., launched just over a week ago, shares 50% of its profits from text ads and banner ads with users who upload their own online video clips. Shares are distributed based on the number of hits a particular video receives. Recently launched Panjea.com, operated by Aware Media Inc., shares 50% of revenue from the ads appearing on profile pages to which users can upload their own video and audio files. Users can also sell their content via download at a price they set, in which case they earn 85% of the sale. In May, Blip Networks Inc.'s Blip.TV began giving members half of the ad revenue it earns from the still- photograph and video ads that users can have placed at the end of their videos. Revver affixes an ad frame to the end of a video clip and gives the users 50% of the revenue generated when the ad is clicked on, whether the video is accessed from a Web site, shared across instant-messaging services or emailed between friends. Watching online video, from comedy skits to failed cooking experiments, is fast becoming a favorite Internet amusement. Nearly one-quarter of Internet users watch online video at least once a week, according to the Online Publishers Association. To date, video sites have typically relied on members' good will and boredom to stock up on inventory that is funny, fresh and contagious. Now new sites hope that dangling cash perks before video uploaders will help them win traffic from more established players like YouTube and Google Video while helping creators share in the success of these sites. Using an ad- sharing service doesn't prevent filmmakers from also posting their clips on YouTube. YouTube did not answer repeated requests for comment.
"Then there is Bree, known as ""lonelygirl15"" on Youtube. She might be everything she appears to be -- a sweet, wide-eyed, intelligent-sounding teenager -- but YouTubers have their doubts. Her videos have been among the most watched and most discussed on YouTube for months now. Many of these exchanges -- posted in a comment section on the site -- center on a picture of famed 20th-century occultist and practitioner of ""black magic"" Aleister Crowley that can be seen hanging on the wall of her room. Is Bree a satanist? YouTubers have even been led to question whether Bree herself isn't someone's invention -- an actress with a script -- and whether her travails are luring viewers in to some darker plot point in the future. The cynicism and skepticism of our age, then, are still there. But watching YouTube is not like watching a polished movie because we don't know where we stand. The result is what one might call interactive entertainment on steroids. Viewers are not only trying to anticipate or even influence the next plot twist within a YouTube auteur's own terms. They are often busily trying to determine whether those terms should be accepted in the first place. One YouTuber has gone so far as to create a character he named ""BreesFather,"" who offers monologues in the guise of Bree's (supposedly) Satan-loving father. Thus he has made himself part of Bree's story, at least as experienced by YouTubers. He's not ""real,"" of course. But whether he's any less real than renetto or Bree herself is hard to tell."
"The two see branching out beyond ""Ninja"" as key to long-term success. ""'Ask a Ninja' was always kind of a proof of concept for us,"" says Mr. Nichols. ""We've looked at others who have been successful but they didn't know how to work with new talent and bring fresh ideas into the fold. Dick Clark makes more money in his sleep producing things than he ever does on camera."" EMMY-NOMINATED PODCASTERS Orrin and Jerry Zucker, ""It s Jerry Time"" itsjerrytime.com The Zucker brothers (no relation to the writer-director brothers behind films such as ""Airplane!"") were among the only amateurs nominated for the first ""iPod Emmy,"" awarded this year to shows made for portable players (AOL won for its ""Live 8 concert broadcasts last summer). Their sitcom-like video podcast uses collage-style animation to recount Jerry's day-to-day exploits. VIDEO PODCAST STARS Kent Nichols and [Douglas Sarine] ""Ask a Ninja,"" askaninja.com Some episodes of this video podcast, which features weekly monologues from a sarcastic ninja character, have had close to 1 million views on YouTube. Made by Mr. Nichols and Mr. Sarine, it regularly tops the iTunes podcast charts, and has inspired dozens of amateurs to make their own ninja tribute videos. They ve recently launched another show, ""Hope is [Emo],"" which stars a young woman and has risen to the top 25 on iTunes in part because of its affiliation with ""Ask a Ninja."""
"The U.N. has enlisted the star of hugely popular Web video series LonelyGirl15 and other Web video makers to participate in an ad campaign promoting an antipoverty event it plans Sunday. Jessica Lee Rose, the teenage actress who plays ""Bree"" in Lonelygirl15 videos posted on video-sharing Web site YouTube, will reprise the role that made her famous, sitting in a bedroom by herself, talking into a camera. But this time, rather than talking about a boy, ""Bree"" makes a plea for the antipoverty cause. The Lonelygirl's antipoverty video, like those made by other amateur video makers, has been posted on YouTube. The U.N. hopes the videos will spark buzz about its call for people around the world to ""stand up against poverty"" at rallies and other events planned for a 24-hour period Sunday. The online videos are part of a broader ad campaign, designed by WPP Group's ad agency Y&amp;R, also involving television. The ad is the first marketing pitch to make use of the LonelyGirl15 character but it may not be the last, Mr. [Greg Goodfried] said. After being approached by Y&amp;R about two weeks ago, the group agreed to participate in the ad because it was ""a really good cause"" and the issue of poverty ""is something that needs more attention,"" says Ms. Rose, the actress appearing in the ad. Mr. Goodfried says they are open to more marketing alliances but says they wouldn't want to let ""Bree"" become ""overcommercialized."""
"""When trying to use any virtual technology in the political space, one still has to remember how people think in the real world. Something that doesn't work in the real world probably won't work just because technology is cool. In 2004, everyone was obsessed with Howard Dean's campaign's Internet strategy. It wasn't a new technology so much as a way to tap into Americans' desire to feel included in the political process. 'What Americans Know' is the definitive text on how to understand the American voter. I often go back and reread this key book for insights into the thought process of the voters."" That said, I don't think the risk is too great. YouTube is far different from Napster or Grokster. The core idea of YouTube is that a user creates a work on their own and then shares it online. The thrust of the business is not to encourage anyone to violate copyright, but rather to create works that they then can distribute online. The business model that YouTube features is a far cry from any of the early music file-sharing businesses. That difference in business model should make a big difference in terms of the copyright risk calculus. MR. [Stan Liebowitz]: Although the purpose of YouTube might be to encourage home-grown creative endeavors, some portion of YouTube files have been pure copyrighted files with no home-grown component, although it appears that YouTube has taken them down when requested."
"YouTube's new system is the latest attempt by an online startup to transition from disputed copyright practices to a less-controversial business model. TV and movie companies are just starting to come to grips with how to manage video-sharing technology. There are signs they could be interested in cutting deals: Several TV executives say they have been in talks with YouTube and other video sites about ways to make some content freely available. General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal signed an advertising and content deal with YouTube in June. YouTube's agreement with Warner hinges on a digital system YouTube is developing to identify automatically copyrighted music or other audio, and related video its users upload. The system relies partly on what's known as ""fingerprinting"" -- comparing audio uploaded to the site to unique attributes of copyrighted content it already knows. YouTube's planned system is similar in some respects to one proposed last year by an online music startup, Snocap Inc., which was launched by Shawn Fanning, the founder of Napster. Snocap is seeking to help peer-to-peer music services and other online outlets become legitimate music distributors. YouTube said the audio-identification system could potentially be used to locate non-music content such as video clips from TV shows, and that it could eventually use video-identification technology as well. YouTube currently faces legal challenges. Robert Tur, the owner of Los Angeles News Service, named YouTube in a complaint filed in July in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. He alleges copyright infringement in connection with several videos that were available through YouTube. YouTube has said Mr. Tur's suit is ""without merit."" A similar case, which an adult-entertainment company, Io Group Inc., brought against a video-sharing site, Veoh Networks Inc., in June in U.S. District Court for California's Northern District, makes a similar claim. A ruling against Veoh could potentially set a precedent affecting YouTube."
"  According to angry consumers and the New York State Attorney General, Direct Revenue makes ""spyware."" These programs track where you go on the Internet and clutter your screen with annoying pop-up advertisements for everything from pornography to wireless phone plans. Spyware can get stuck in your computer's hard drive as you shop, chat, or download a song. It might arrive attached to that clever video you just nabbed at no charge. Web security company McAfee Inc. estimates that nearly three-quarters of all sites listed in response to Internet searches for popular phrases like ""free screen savers"" or ""digital music"" attempt to install some form of advertising software in visitors' computers. Once lodged there, spyware can sap a PC's processing power, slow its functioning, and even cause it to crash. The Web is the hottest game in advertising, but what's rarely acknowledged is the extent to which unsavory pop-ups boost the returns. Some advertisers say their messages have appeared in pop-ups without their permission. Others seek out pop-ups, and Direct Revenue frequently sells ads directly to such advertisers."
  All Chad Hurley and Steve Chen wanted to do was share some videos from a dinner party with a half-dozen friends in San Francisco. It was January, 2005, and they couldn't figure out a good solution. Sending the clips around by e-mail was a bust: The e-mails kept getting rejected because they were so big. Posting the videos online was a headache, too. So last February the two buddies got to work in Hurley's garage, determined to design something simpler. What they came up with is a Web site, now called YouTube, that has become an Internet phenomenon. In 11 months the site has become one of the most popular on the Net. It shows 30 million videos a day and drew 9.1 million people in February, says Web measurement service Nielsen//NetRatings. That makes the upstart one of the biggest providers of videos on the Net, ahead of Yahoo! and Google and just behind Microsoft, according to the Nielsen//NetRatings estimates. The trouble is, the freewheeling approach that has made YouTube a hit could be its downfall. Users have been posting videos that are still under copyright, without any of the required legal approvals.
  A year ago, Yahoo!'s ambitions in the media industry were nothing short of audacious. Yahoo! Inc. execs spoke of creating smash-hit, medium-defining programming for the interactive world. The company furiously set to work on a number of high-profile content ideas, from adapting the abandoned reality-TV show The Runner into a multimillion-dollar Internet program to developing a home-electronics reality contest, dubbed Wow House. Today, after a turbulent year in the media business, Yahoo is singing a much more modest tune. Large projects such as The Runner are in a holding pattern as Yahoo susses out the potential business opportunities. Wow House has been sent back to the drawing board. Yahoo's original content endeavors, from celebrity blogs to the online reality shows, have fallen flat or been stuck in development. Certainly, Yahoo has plenty going for it. The company boasts over 400 million visitors and a media division that streams more music videos than anyone else each month. But its reluctance to aggressively pursue outside content unless it can add its own twist could hurt its efforts to pull in advertisers.
  Everyone from Time Warner and Viacom to Yahoo! and Microsoft is under enormous pressure to acquire the next MySpace or YouTube. But amid steadily rising valuations, Old and New Media executives alike are afraid of overpaying and being punished by their shareholders. They are seeing a valuation gap that sometimes doesn't make sense, says Wade Davis, Viacom's senior vice-president for mergers and acquisitions, who has overseen a handful of Web 2.0 deals whose prices collectively are well below what Google is paying for YouTube. Time Warner Chairman and CEO Richard D. Parsons, still dealing with the aftermath of the disastrous merger with AOL in 2001, has similar concerns. Paying up is less of a concern for a Google, of course. While Old Media continues to suffer from lagging stock prices and tepid advertising revenues, Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo have huge cash hoards, manageable debt, and, in the case of Google, a lofty stock price. Paying $1.65 billion for YouTube amounts to less than 2% of Google's $130 billion market cap - and the big bet on the video-sharing site could be as much about gut and ego as it is about hard-nosed business sense. Nonetheless, some analysts see a lot of froth in the market, and the risk remains that even highfliers like MySpace and YouTube could flame out if their fickle, youthful audiences decide to move on.
  Far from the land of dogs on skateboards and Webcam yakkers on YouTube, the online genre of scripted programs is attracting small but passionate groups of fans. The networks and talent agencies are watching closely, and the phenomenon is giving indie filmmakers new ways to get their works seen. Given these webcasts' ability to generate dedicated followers, their potential seems particularly attractive to advertisers. Advertisers are looking for a Google-like system that will tell them where and when to put their ads next to scripted Web shows. Another alternative would be a site that hosts many such niche shows, so it would have the economies of scale to serve up longer, higher-resolution videos and maintain an ad sales force.
"  If movie studios hope to dodge the fate of the music industry, whose growth was cut short in part by illegal downloading, they need to come up with a solution to illegal copying. So studios are prodding the feds to put some fear into pirates. The goal: stem the $6.1 billion that the industry estimates was lost to illegal copying in 2005. Half of pirated material is in DVDs sold on street corners, but $3 billion comes from pirates stealing digital movies and posting them online. A global investigation is methodically targeting piracy rings from Chicago to Charlotte, NC, to China. To date, a California investigation has won 24 convictions. The picture that emerges from these investigations is of loosely knit cybergangs, driven more by competitive zeal than profit motive. A skilled ""cammer,"" who records movies in a theater and sends them off for uploading to the Net, can make up to $2,000 per film. But most pirates are in it for the thrill of proving their coding skills."
  In the past year, cellular-service providers and phonemakers have begun moving to faster networks, including something new called WiMAX, which is like Wi-Fi writ large. This will unleash a flood of innovative mobile gadgets and services that will stretch the definition of wireless as we know it. This latest phase of the mobile revolution is intimately tied to the abrupt rise of media-rich social networks such as Google Inc.'s YouTube and News Corp.'s MySpace.com. Groups of friends crave connectedness, and they achieve it by swapping photos, music, and video clips, immersing themselves in a shared chronicle of daily life. To participate, you used to have to sit in front of a computer screen. Now the handset, stuffed with content you purchase or create, will become your personal television network, your music studio, and your wallet for dispensing digital money. South Korea and Japan have emerged as oracles of mobility. More than 3 million Koreans regularly use their mobile phones to log on to the giant Cyworld social networking site. Both Japan and Korea are starting to roll out speedy WiMAX data networks that can deliver wireless broadband access to entire cities.
  Move over, MySpace. Just as the big online social networks are branching out, trying to reach an audience broader than teens and Gen Y, a raft of upstarts hopes to reach these same prospects. To attract older or less tech-savvy folks, they're offering ever-more-targeted services that can be personalized to people's existing social groups and interests. These new social-networking sites range from karaoke and photography communities on Multiply to canine sites on Dogster and community TV-style personal video sites and mothers' groups created using do-it-yourself services such as Ning and PeopleAggregator. The big question is whether these sites, which depend largely on advertising for revenues, can overcome the awesome momentum of such leaders as News Corp.'s MySpace, with 130 million users and 8 million more each month, and Facebook, with 12 million people.
"  Nearly 40 years ago, in a blue-collar Irish neighborhood in Scranton, Pa., Judy McGrath fell in love with music. Her life took a magical detour that led her to write on-air promotions for a new invention, music television. Twenty-five years later, she is chairman and CEO of MTV Networks Co. The $7 billion-a-year operation she oversees is a collection of some of the most recognizable brands in the business, from the original MTV to Nickelodeon to VH1 to Comedy Central. Their programs are seen in 169 countries and heard in 28 languages. Today the girl with a bohemian streak and rock 'n' roll dreams has one of the biggest and most challenging jobs in media. The music channel may have seemed bold and experimental when it began in August, 1981. But the MTV empire today is a staple of the media Establishment and faces a slew of new threats. After all, it's the iPod era, a broadband world, and the online generation is defining for itself what is edgy and new. Ratings may be strong for many of the channels, but the original MTV isn't the must-see it was. So McGrath has declared ""a digital Marshall Plan."" It signals the end of the one-screen company. The troops must now deliver services across new broadband channels, over cell phones, and via video games. No piece of the network is under as much fire as the core MTV channels. And McGrath is doing something alien to the start-from-scratch culture: seeking acquisitions and partnerships."
  Owners of TV stations once had to try to mess up the business.Oh, sure, there was competition from cable, endless wrangling with the networks you did business with, and costly local news wars, fought with expensive gimmicks like news choppers. But local TV was a relatively undisturbed patch of the sandbox. Then Apple unveiled the video iPod. And ABC started selling programs as $1.99 downloads before subsequently announcing that it would stream shows over the Web, sell ads around them, and not share those revenues with local station affiliates. But sometimes the Web can give back some of what it takes away, and there's untapped upside for local TV guys online. Ad agency folks will tell you that there's more demand for Web video ads--for a local station's site, the ad snippet preceding, say, sports highlights--than there is inventory. The growth of these ads may not make up all the money local TV players would lose should many viewers forsake their local station for streamed or downloaded shows. But given the high prices online video ads command, they might get close.
  Six years after the Internet bust dashed hopes that original movies and shows would fly in cyberspace, online production is back. And it's not being fueled by Hollywood suits and high-priced directors who crowded the Net in 1999. Today a small army of computer jockeys from Santa Monica to Brooklyn is quietly creating a New Hollywood by conjuring up hundreds of short bursts of animated or live-action entertainment from their second bedrooms or kitchen tables. Companies are taking notice, placing products in the films themselves or running ads next to the videos. Going a step further, companies eager to connect with a younger audience are hiring these new filmmakers to create commercials. It's a tough way to make a living. Free content on the internet drives the price down for even the hottest pros cranking out films for the Web.
  The dilemma facing any owner of copyrighted works continues to be how to compete with free given that the unauthorized use of online of books, music, and videos is still rampant. But Mohen's plan is to offer music free and still ensure that the record labels get paid. The concept? Sell advertising and offer music companies the bulk of those revenues. To help woo Madison Avenue, Mohen hired Robin Kent, a former chairman of ad giant Universal McCann Worldwide, to be his CEO, and SpiralFrog was born. SpiralFrog is one of a handful of new services introduced in the past two months that offer music, videos, and, in one case, books for free in exchange for users having to view advertising.
  Their knack for numbers has helped turn the Internet into an advertising sensation. No medium before has been able to provide advertisers with such detailed information on how many people see an ad--and how many respond to it with a click. This apparent precision has helped hoist Google Inc. into the stratosphere. And it has powered phenomenal growth across Internet advertising, from banner ads on smart-alecky blogs to movie videos jumping out from Yahoo!'s home page. But not all the Internet numbers tell the truth. The same technology that's smart enough to target ads automatically, and to count them, can also be engineered to churn out false clicks by the millions. And concerns about privacy are leading an estimated 10% of Web surfers to erase their Internet cookies on a regular basis. The race is on to find new ways to track customer behavior. Advertisers and agencies are tracking the to-and-froing of the mouse on Web pages, and they're finding new ways to group shoppers by age, Zip Code, and reading habits.
  The typical Fendi ad is beautifully styled and impeccably shot, but totally static-models toting $2,000 handbags are frozen two-dimensionally on glossy pages. That's all changing in late September when Fendi's first video ad goes live on Style.com, the online home of Vogue and W magazines, just in time for the Italian fashion shows. The video will be peppered across the site, jumping out as a full-screen pop-up and rolling as a 15-second clip before Style.com's videos of the collections. Fendi is just one of a bevy of luxury-goods retailers, including Valentino Fashion Group and Bottega Veneta, that Style.com has recently lured onto the Web. The six-year-old site attracted 88 advertisers to ply next season's swingy spring dresses online during September's New York Fashion Week, a 54% jump over last year. Designers, who rack up $14 billion in sales annually, realize they need to follow the changing habits of customers, who increasingly are snapping up the latest must-haves online.
  With all the hubbub around Google Inc.'s purchase of YouTube Inc., it's easy to think that three-minute, streaming clips mark the culmination of the online video revolution. The next few months will see the unveiling of a slew of innovative approaches to dishing up video. They range from the much anticipated launch of something called the Venice Project, by the founders of Skype Ltd., the Internet phone service, to the rebirth of BitTorrent, the video piracy software of choice as a legitimate business. Rather than join the 150 YouTube video-sharing clones dishing up short, static-ridden videos, the Venice Project is tackling the problem of streaming long videos of nearly high-definition-TV quality in a cost-effective way.
  YouTube Inc. is the Internet company to beat these days. With all the excitement, it's easy to forget that the video-sharing pioneer's business so far amounts to a whole lot of expenses, not much revenue, and no profits. Because the company is charting a delicate course in how it handles pirated videos, its legal costs could balloon if lawsuits start piling up. Even more important, though, is the tricky question of how YouTube can make money off its phenomenal growth while maintaining the promise behind that popularity. YouTube could easily alienate its users by overwhelming them with ads. And the startup has to figure out how to attract a broader group of marketers by filtering more for copyrighted or offensive videos and by creating more channels of similar content.
  YouTube is evolving into a sort of eBay for video: the first place you go to find a clip, but also a place where more folks are itching to get rewarded for supplying it. A growing group of creative types is furiously producing clips, video blogs, and animated shorts with the hopes of making money through advertising or selling DVDs. While YouTube promises huge distribution, the site and its users are just starting to sort out how to apportion the power they've suddenly acquired. Bob Tur's lawsuit shows the fine line that YouTube is walking as it attempts to build its business model. Tur is suing because his videos of the Los Angeles riot and other events were uploaded without his permission. Although lawyers agree that YouTube should be protected by copyright law as long as it responds to content owners' requests to take down their works, it entered uncharted territory when it recently began adding ads next to search results. The law prohibits a site from benefiting financially from infringement, but the company argues that it's protected since it doesn't sell ads against individual videos. Still, the courts haven't set clear boundaries.
"  YouTube's lonelygirl15, also known as Bree, and her best (and only) pal, the schlumpy Daniel, have been starring in videos posted to YouTube since mid-June. But already lonelygirl15's YouTube ""channel"" is the second most subscribed to of all time, and each video elicits thousands of viewer comments. Bree and Daniel are proof that a secret-handshake-styled series of short videos can be a bona fide hit. Alas, the bookish and cute Bree is not real. Or at least not what she purports to be. A hot and near obsessive debate about all this is playing out in video responses posted to YouTube and on countless blogs. Early chatter suggested a few theories: The videos were a corporation's viral marketing campaign; a teaser for an unknown major entertainment property; or something dreamed up by an obscure Christian sect, occultists, or Scientologists. None of this, by the way, affects the genius-in-miniature of the ongoing lonelygirl15 saga, or its triumph as a new form. No soap opera was ever this good."
