  A chapter in a soon-to-be-published book on the digital economy by the National Bureau of Economic Research makes a compelling case for media companies speeding up efforts to get as much of their content online as possible. The study looks at what happened in 2009, when ABC added a chunk of television shows to Hulu, the popular streaming-video service. The results were immediate and striking: Illegal downloads of those shows dropped almost 20% compared with a control group. Content companies are coming up with more legal ways to find media online, and at the same time file sharing is dropping off. A recent analysis of overall Internet activity by Sandvine showed that file sharing as a whole has dropped from 31% of traffic in 2008 to less than 10% today.
  A few weeks ago, a two-and-a-half minute video called Telekinetic Coffee Shop Surprise circulated online. The coffee shop was a real coffee shop -- 'sNice in Manhattan's West Village -- and the looks of horror on customers' faces were genuine. The prank was funny and fascinating, and has since been watched more than 46 million times on YouTube and discussed on both Good Morning America and CNN. It's also, technically speaking, a commercial. The prank and resulting video were a promotional stunt for Sony Pictures' Carrie remake; this becomes evident when the movie's title and release date appear at the end. The need to be shared and go viral is the new orthodoxy of online media. But it's also something that's incredibly difficult to engineer. There is, of course, one problem with using unsuspecting bystanders' genuine emotional reactions to sell your product: Sometimes they don't like it.
  Among Christopher Widauer's duties as technical director of the Vienna State Opera is to make sure spectators in his 2,100 seats can clearly see the stage as well as translations of the libretto. He had to consider a much bigger audience when his bosses said they wanted to earn additional revenue with Web and mobile HD simulcasts -- without the delays and hiccups that often interrupt online videos. The opera house is one of more than 600 clients that have relied on software maker Ooyala to help them set up and manage streaming video services. Mountain View (CA)-based Ooyala is one of a handful of companies that provide such back-end services, selling subscription-based software that helps automate online video programming and ad delivery.
"  Apparently unsatisfied with acquiring countless tech startups, Yahoo has gone out and acquired David Pogue. The erstwhile New York Times tech columnist announced the move via Tumblr, appropriately enough, on an account that he apparently started over the weekend. Pogue will be helping Yahoo build a consumer-tech site, which will include online columns, goofy videos, and mysterious ""real-world creations."" The move seems to make sense for him. He has benefited immensely from his relationship with the Times and has used it to build a pretty good name for himself. The hiring fits into what Yahoo has been trying to do, too. The plan seems to be to come up with as many ways to drive traffic as possible and figure out how to make money later."
  Arnold Donald had been on the board of Carnival for 12 years when he got a call in June from the cruise company's lead director, Stuart Subotnick. It was an offer to succeed Micky Arison as Carnival's CEO, and Donald was incredulous. Donald's skepticism was understandable. Arison, the son of Carnival's founder, had run the company for 34 years; Donald, a former Monsanto executive, had no prior cruise-operating experience. Carnival -- the world's largest cruise company with 10 brands ranging from the low-cost Carnival to the pricey 173-year-old British Cunard Line -- had been in crisis since its Costa Concordia ran aground off the Italian coast in 2012, killing 32 people. That was followed by more incidents this year, including a fire aboard the Carnival Triumph in February that further tarnished the company's image with extensive news video of passengers stranded at sea. Among Donald's first steps were meetings with travel agents to repair relations frayed in recent years as the company put more emphasis on automated online bookings.
  Before its video went live on YouTube, almost nobody had heard of Coin. In the one-minute, 45-second ad, a schlubby, bearded guy demonstrates how to use the credit card-size device to electronically store up to eight cards that can be used to pay at a checkout counter and a restaurant. Posted on Nov 14, the ad has close to seven million views. Coin reached its first-month sales goal of $50,000 less than an hour after it went up for preorders online. CEO Kanishk Parashar says that's due in large part to the ad, which helped attract greater interest from consumers and contract manufacturers. Adam Lisagor made the ad. A former journeyman film editor and the founder of Sandwich Video, he has emerged as the director of choice among Silicon Valley startups looking to gain visibility. In 2010, when he started making the videos, there were only a few filmmakers specializing in the app-demo business.
  Consumers have plenty of ways to watch movies over the Internet. There's Netflix, Amazon.com Instant Video, Wal-Mart Stores' Vudu, and Apple's iTunes. Now the market for buying and renting films online is about to get more crowded. A new service, Redbox Instant by Verizon, plans to throw open its virtual doors to customers willing to pay $8 a month. Subscribers will gain online access to a catalog of older films at no extra fee, an on-demand store of newer movies available for rent or purchase, and DVD rental credits good for four recent releases each month from Redbox's kiosks at supermarkets and drugstores around the US. So far, studios seem to like the approach.
  For some truly strange advertisements, look no further than the National Cable &amp; Television Association's Hole Saga, a Web site consisting of several pro-cable video sketches. The videos, which have been running for just over a week, discuss the hole in people's hearts that is formed by an absence of cable. The concept is strange in that it's based on people having a loving relationship with a cable provider. People should probably give cable a break. It's not the best time to be running a pay television company. Cable companies lost 687,000 subscribers in the last quarter. Many of those people moved to satellite television or fiber optic options offered by telecoms, meaning that the industry lost 113,000 subscribers over that period, according to analyst Craig Moffett.
"  Fresh off the launch of its new Kevin Spacey political drama, House of Cards, Netflix is planning an original animated children's series. Turbo: F.A.S.T. (Fast Action Stunt Team) is a spin-off from the DreamWorks Animation studio film Turbo, which is set for release July 19. For Netflix, which recently bolstered its kid-friendly offerings by signing an exclusivity deal with Walt Disney, the Turbo series will be its first ""in-house"" production aimed at children. Netflix's push to increase its original programming is an effort to distinguish the company from other online video services, such as Amazon Prime and Hulu Plus, which often carry the same older television shows and movies as Netflix does. Netflix also licensed rights to stream Disney's older content as part of the transaction."
  German car maker Audi posted three versions of its ad on YouTube and let consumers select which ending should air, while Ford Motor's Lincoln brand started a Twitter campaign that asked people to tweet their most memorable road-trip stories.
  In a bid to attract more advertising dollars and shift advertiser budgets away from TV, YouTube over the next few years could end up spending hundreds of millions of dollars in cash advances to video producers around the world to create high-quality, original content for YouTube.
  In an interview, Tom Freston, the former head of Viacom, talked about breakfast with Oprah Winfrey, Afghan TV, and the killer media app. On what's it like to move between Winfrey and Shane Smith, Freston said Smith has an interesting bunch of guys. And Winfrey is wonderful. She romanced me into helping her. She made breakfast for me. What alliances he sees coming, Freston said the next wave is going to be online video. With all the extra screens -- the iPads and the iPhones -- and the social tools, soon the killer application is going to come along for navigation, which will make this all seamless.
"  In any estimate of the world's bestselling authors, there is William Shakespeare, Agatha Christie, and everyone else. With at least five titles that topped the New York Times bestseller list, Tom Clancy is one of the bigger names in the ""everyone else"" category. Today, literary franchises can hit Clancy-type sales numbers in a few hours, but books were just a part of the Clancy universe. There were also the feature films stocked with A-list actors -- four in all: The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games, Clear and Present Danger, and The Sum of All Fears. In total, the films grossed $616 million at theatres, according to Box Office Mojo. Clancy's name also powered up a video-game company, Red Storm Entertainment, which had a string of hits, including Rainbow Six and Ghost Recon."
  In a report this week, the Superior Audiovisual Council (CSA) says that video-sharing Web sites should be subject to a tax that helps finance the production of French films and television shows. The so-called culture tax, totaling more than E1.3 billion ($1.8 billion) annually, is paid by movie theaters, broadcasters, and Internet service providers in France. The CSA contends that YouTube, French video-sharing site DailyMotion, and their ilk are effectively providing video-on-demand services, which are already subject to the tax. Although the CSA report says that videos posted online by private individuals should not be subject to taxation, it contends that video-sharing sites increasingly have become professional content providers.
  In March 5 a 16-year-old Texan named Austin Mahone posted a video to YouTube in which he and some buddies dance to Harlem Shake, an electronic single turned viral phenomenon. The song, by the Brooklyn producer Baauer, came out as a free download last spring. The Harlem Shake is not simply the latest fad to take up temporary residence in our hips. The craze highlights permanent changes in how the music industry works and looks. Since YouTube's inception in 2005, the site's been known primarily as a bottomless Big Gulp brimming with Webcam confessionals, cute-mammal footage, and assorted other Web junk. The best-known YouTube alum is Justin Bieber, once a wee Canadian nobody who began showcasing his angelic whinny on the site in 2007. On a smaller scale, the future may look something like another Mad Decent artist, the eccentric rapper RiffRaff who's built a thriving career by flooding YouTube with cheap videos for songs he cranks out at a feverish pace.
  It's been nearly eight years since Microsoft performed a major overhaul of its Xbox video game console. In that time, the Xbox has demonstrated remarkable resilience, thriving amid huge shifts in the types of devices and online services people like to use. It may be Microsoft's only beloved consumer product, in part because the company hasn't mucked up its winning formula. With the gaming market shifting away from consoles, though, Microsoft is doing a little tinkering. The goal is to move its system decisively beyond gaming and transform the Xbox into an entertainment hub for users' televisions. They turn a television that's delivered to you one-way through a straw into a two-way experience that understands what's going on with you, says Xbox division head Don Mattrick. Microsoft's bid to manage more home entertainment includes customizing the new Xbox to keep each family member happy.
  Measured by bytes, the two sites Netflix and YouTube now make up more than half of Internet traffic in the US, according to Sandvine's latest Global Internet Phenomena Report using data from September. This year the duo crossed the halfway point, hitting 50.3%. Notably lagging are two other widely discussed video services: Hulu and Amazon (AMZN). Both companies are slipping from their already lowly traffic numbers: Amazon accounted for 1.6% of total downstream traffic in September, compared with an average of 1.75% in the second half of 2012. This mammoth disparity is a way to set the stage for what should be a big week for Amazon's video streaming service, which is releasing its first original television series.
"  Michael Hayes, president of digital at ad agency Initiative, a unit of Interpublic Group of Cos, said there is ""downward pressure on advertiser rates due to the sheer volume of options that advertisers have"" through YouTube's rivals."
  More than 100 employees of Bigcommerce, a four-year-old company, are on their feet or perched on swings in its huge game room, with plate-glass views out over Hill Country. Executive Steve Case, overdressed from a meeting earlier in the day at the US Capitol, is in a button-down shirt, pleated slacks, and tasseled loafers, looking a generation older than the scruffy dot-com workers he's about to address. For any startup, a new round of funding is an ecstatic occasion. Getting the money from Case -- billionaire co-founder of America Online, father of the consumer Internet -- brings a sense of destiny: Maybe this company will become legendary, too. In 1983, Case was a 24-year-old marketer for Pizza Hut when his older brother, an investment banker, helped him get a job at a small company that was trying to make video games interactive. That venture failed, but another one sprouted up.
  One of the business lessons Dave Howe has learned during his time as president of the Syfy cable network: Six-foot-tall extraterrestrials are a lot less expensive than 12-foot-tall ones. That knowledge came in handy during production of Defiance, Syfy's new series about aliens who come to earth and their prickly relationship with the current inhabitants. Defiance is being simultaneously produced as a video game; the developers at Trion Worlds, Syfy's gaming partner, wanted some of the alien characters to be 12 feet tall. Defiance is perhaps the most ambitious transmedia project yet: A television show and massively multiplayer online video game where plot elements from the weekly show bleed into the real-time cyberworld of the game. The series debuted on April 15 to an audience of 2.7 million, making it the most successful launch in seven years for Syfy, which is owned by NBCUniversal, a unit of Comcast.
  Online advertising firm Thinkmodo makes videos for companies such as Oakley, AMC Networks, and CBS Films, and almost every one has been watched more than a million times -- many of them more than 10 million. Thinkmodo's last ad was a two-and-a-half-minute promo for Sony Pictures Entertainment's Carrie remake that featured a woman using her telekinetic powers to freak out coffee shop patrons. Released in October, it's been viewed more than 52 million times on YouTube; Google recently ranked it the second-most-watched online ad of the year. The company's videos follow a specific formula. First, co-founder Michael Krivicka says, you have to play on people's emotions. Don't show the product or advertise the film too blatantly, or people will stop watching. When filming a prank, make it as authentic as possible while guarding against lawsuits.
  On March 13 Netflix introduced a revamped integration with Facebook, showing its 33 million online members on the Netflix home page which movies and television episodes their Facebook friends have watched. Users can also post to Facebook individual videos they've loved or hated and discuss them on their timelines. Sharing video rental data is Netflix CEO Reed Hastings's latest effort to change how people watch movies and television. Unlike HBO and the broadcast networks, Netflix lets viewers watch as many episodes as they wish on their own schedule. Time Warner CEO Jeffrey Bewkes has criticized the strategy, saying Hastings makes it easy for people to drop the service after they've quickly seen what they like. Netflix is betting its new social features will get subscribers to stick around and remain part of the online conversation.
"  Other mainstream-media companies have launched channels for YouTube, while also putting their cable network programming online, available for pay TV subscribers, a strategy called ""TV Everywhere."""
  Raghu Venkat was at his breaking point in 2010. After he spent months helping to fine-tune the analytics software behind Aster Data Systems, his bosses ordered him to take a two-week vacation and handed him a $1,500 prepaid debit card as a bonus for his hard work. He spent the money on a massive widescreen television and a couple of video game systems, making his apartment the new home base for co-workers Manav Mital and Hariharan Kolam. Soon, Venkat was obsessed with games like Bioshock. Out of the desire for speedier gaming and online services came the idea for Instart Logic, the Mountain View (CA)-based company the trio quit their jobs to found. Instart's software determines what users tend to look for on a given Web site and breaks desired Web pages into prioritized chunks.
"  Scott Schreer is an indie musician, but not the garage-band variety. The composer licenses his 1,700 musical works, designed as scenic background music, to film and television producers. Less gratifyingly, he can also hear them used, without permission, in thousands of videos on YouTube. Hunting those stray recordings and trying to collect licensing fees from the video-sharing Google subsidiary didn't seem worth the trouble. Then Schreer started using Audiam. Audiam's program combs YouTube for videos that feature unlicensed music, using audio-matching software and YouTube's own Content ID system. Founder Jeff Price, a friend of Schreer's, pitches musicians like this: ""Let's go find you money that already exists. It's buried treasure."""
  Separately, Google's YouTube video website is trying to obtain licenses from music labels to start a paid subscription service for music videos and potentially also for audio-only songs, these people said.
  Television has been the last stand of traditional media, but the time has come for it to defend its turf. After flirting with video advertising for much of the year, Facebook said Tuesday that it will begin to put promoted videos into its news feed. Facebook users will roll their eyes and post status updates about being annoyed. But success for the video ads could genuinely threaten television companies. The markets for advertising in other types of traditional media have been decimated by the Internet. But while television ad sales dipped when the recession hit, they soon recovered and have continued to climb. This is primarily because television remains the last true mass-market medium, according to Paul Sweeney of Bloomberg Industries. Piecing together an audience by buying various types of advertising is simply less efficient than slapping an ad on television.
"  The major YouTube stars were ushered behind back staircases and accompanied by walkie-talkie toting assistants who told teenage girls ""no pictures."" [...]the preponderance of attendees were casual users like Owen and Elliott Desai, 17-year-old identical twin brothers from Minnesota breaking into their first VidCon with 250 business cards printed with their senior picture on it."
  The move would add a new revenue stream for YouTube and its thousands of content partners, and it could potentially help the site lure new video creators who want a subscription model rather than rely only on advertising, these people said.
  The National Football League (NFL) has $6 billion worth of annual incentives to keep Americans from watching games online. So fiercely does the league guard its lucrative television deals that to watch football online in the US, fans still have to pay a television provider: The only Americans who are technically allowed to watch NFL's live streams are those customers who purchase DirecTV's all-access Sunday Ticket package, a deal worth $1 billion to the NFL. For just a couple of dollars cord-cutting fans could digitally pretend to be from somewhere overseas, which would give you access to every single NFL game, live and in high definition, through your Internet connection. That's the promise of Canadian startup Adfreetime.com, one of a handful of providers to offer what's called a DNS-switching service. Adfreetime and such rivals as Unblock-us.com, which charges $4.99 per month for a similar region-switching service, have made it easy and remarkably cheap to get access to all kinds of streaming video.
"  The revamped Yahoo.com, which goes live on Wednesday morning, represents Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer's boldest attempt yet to remake and update the Web giant she took over last July. Most visibly, the redesign draws on a key element of Facebook and Twitter, introducing a ""news feed"" of live, endlessly scrollable content, which includes news stories, videos, and messages from advertisers. The overhaul, which has a clean look and dramatic highlights in purple, was led in part by Jackie Goldberg, Yahoo's design director and a former creative director at Hewlett-Packard. Mayer says she met with the team once a week over the past few months. The redesign also gives Yahoo new opportunities to host advertisements on its most profitable real estate."
  The Roppongi Hills studio is central to YouTube's first significant effort at audience-building in Asia. The online video giant's other two studios, in Los Angeles and London, help popular creators develop original programming for its online video channels. In Japan, YouTube's biggest regional success story in Asia, the company is recruiting online video stars to bolster its local-language channels with more targeted original programming and higher production values. Local programming is important for advertisers who want to reach Asian audiences, says Trevor Healy, Singapore-based CEO of mobile advertising agency Amobee. In Japan, YouTube and other Google video sites had 50.8 million unique viewers in December, a 30% rise over the same period a year earlier, according to comScore data.
  The transaction adds Yahoo to the list of established Internet companies, including Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., that have spent $1 billion or more apiece to buy startup companies in hopes of gaining an edge in growth. Yahoo Chief Executive Marissa Mayer's deal for Tumblr gives Yahoo, one of the original big Internet companies, a fast-growing Web service that could fill one of its many holes--namely, the lack of a thriving social-networking and communications hub.
"  Twitter quietly rolled out a new feature -- or irritant, depending on how you look at it -- for users of its Web site on Tuesday, as well as for its iOS and Android apps: Photo and video previews now show up as expanded images directly in a tweet instead of requiring users to click on a link. Some fans of the move welcomed the new feature, but others seemed taken aback by all the multimedia filling their streams, and by the Facebook-style feel it gives to Twitter. In addition to appealing to advertisers, which now get to insert what amount to banner ads into their streams the feature is likely aimed at attracting new users and encouraging them to use Twitter -- something the tech industry calls ""on-boarding."""
"  VivendiSA's Universal Music Publishing Group has struck deals with Maker Studios Inc. and Fullscreen Inc., two of the biggest ""multichannel networks""--a new breed of digital entertainment companies that distribute, promote and sometimes produce videos specifically made for Google Inc.'s YouTube."
  Wall Street Journal reporter Katherine Rosman recently invited YouTube creators and behind-the-camera marketers and brokers to discuss how the creative process can become a business in an . John McCarus, at the advertising agency Digitas, whose clients include Whirlpool and Sprint Is it difficult to convince consumer-product advertisers to invest in advertising on YouTube, a platform with a demographic and content that can be very different from broadcast and cable programming?
"  What's different with ""Some Girl(s)"" is that it marks the first new release to use the Vimeo On Demand platform, which gives filmmakers a generous 90% cut of the revenue generated by the film -- compared with 70% on iTunes, or 50% from a cable operator -- and complete control over pricing and marketing."
  [...]YouTube has altered some of its policies to help video creators generate more revenue.
  [...]YouTube has changed some of its policies to help video creators generate more revenue from their videos, both on and off the site.
