60Frames will provide professional video creators with financing for their projects, secure advertising to appear alongside the clips, and distribute the videos online through video-sharing sites and other Internet-based services. The company plans to focus on short-form content, including serialized sketch comedies. Filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen will be the first video creators 60Frames works with.
"A new crop of Web entertainment sites has popped up in recent months, many of them featuring scripted, episodic short-form content known as ""webisodes."" The online offerings include Web sites that feature video shorts, such as Break.com; scripted original series such as ""quarterlife,"" a 36-episode series from top TV producers Marshall Herskovitz and Edward Zwick, known for the series ""thirtysomething""; and ""Prom Queen,"" the Web-only drama produced by former Walt Disney Co. Chief Executive Michael Eisner. One of Break's most popular shows is a series it licensed from General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal unit called ""Hot Crush"" featuring two young women breaking things. A recent two-minute episode features the duo throwing and dropping items frozen with liquid nitrogen, such as watermelons. While that series doesn't run with advertising pre- or post-clip, the site overall is dotted with ads for a coming Sony movie, ""Walk Hard,"" and the TBS show ""Frank TV."" Mydamnchannel.com is running channels created by personalities with Hollywood street cred, like Harry Shearer, who voices several characters on ""The Simpsons."" Mydamnchannel CEO and former MTV executive Rob Barnett says he supports the writers' demands and hopes the strike will bring in more viewers. ""When there is nothing but repeats [on television], people will go searching for alternatives,"" he says. Mr. Shearer says those who do will notice the difference, both creatively and commercially. ""No homogenization due to network and studio interference,"" he says. ""No being bombarded with multiple- minute ""pods"" of 15-second ads and promos."""
"Another big marketer that was reported as cutting spending on measured media was Johnson &amp; Johnson, down 20% overall. Much of the cut occurred in J&amp;J's national TV budget -- which accounts for 60% of the company's total ad spending. The national TV budget was down 25%, or $254 million, while ""measured"" Web spending rose slightly. The TV cutback follows J&amp;J's decision last year to sit out the ""upfront"" TV ad-sales market -- where networks sell most of their ad inventory. J&amp;J said this week it planned to sit out this year's upfront as well. ""As a matter of policy we do not comment on ad spending,"" a spokesman for J&amp;J says. Cable's overall slowdown also reflects a shift of marketers to newer media, media buyers say. Advertisers looking for niche or high-profile audiences such as young men ""were the first to migrate to cable and now those advertisers are moving from cable and broadcast to the Internet,"" says John Spiropoulos, vice president, group research director at Publicis Groupe's MediaVest. ""You can take some money from cable and get a similar reach from the Internet."" TNS's report also is likely to confirm some viewers' suspicions about the amount of product placement -- particularly in reality shows such as Fox's ""American Idol"" and NBC's ""The Biggest Loser."" TNS estimated that in an hour of a reality show, 55% of the time would be taken up either by commercials or by program scenes that included appearances by different brands. Judges on ""American Idol,"" for instance, drink from cups marked prominently with the name of show sponsor Coke."
"CBS could announce as early as today agreements which will make available to these portals previously aired full episodes of shows such as ""NCIS,"" ""CSI: Crime Scene Investigation,"" the ""Evening News with Katie Couric"" and certain sports programming. Aside from MSN, a unit of Microsoft Corp., and AOL, a unit of Time Warner Inc., the New York media company is also expected to announce an agreement with Joost, an online-video service founded by the creators of the Internet-telephone service Skype. CBS will become the first broadcast network to sign with Joost. CBS's increased distribution could give it ammunition if it tries to negotiate a favorable deal with YouTube, the biggest video site on the Web with more than one billion videos streamed each month. CBS has tried to strike a broad, multiyear licensing deal with YouTube, but talks have fallen apart over such matters as licensing fees and the forcefulness of YouTube's efforts to police pirated clips."
"""Cognizance"" is one of hundreds of movies known as ""brickfilms"" that are getting attention on YouTube and other video-sharing sites. Amateur filmmakers use Lego pieces to create characters and scenes, sometimes spending months painstakingly arranging and rearranging the blocks before the camera. Re-creations of famous moments in ""Star Wars"" and ""Titanic,"" faithfully rendered in the primary colors of Lego pieces and stitched together from thousands of stop-motion frames, have drawn hundreds of thousands of viewings. Many of the productions are original films with elaborate plotlines, soundtracks and voice- overs. ""I was still in junior high, playing with Legos, and the Internet and I collided,"" says Robinson Wood, 18, of San Jose, Calif., whose ""Frankenstein"" and ""Grace"" are often cited by fans as classic brickfilms. In Mr. Wood's plastic retelling of Mary Shelley's monster tale -- which some viewers have found too violent for a film made from children's toys -- he used red clay to simulate blood, and achieved the sound of breaking glass by dropping a peanut butter jar eight feet onto concrete. As brickfilmers try to one-up one another with increasingly creative special effects, they find themselves drawing from an unusual list of household items. Artists realized that they could simulate shattered glass by slowly cutting apart plastic wrap, or a clear sheet of sugar. In Lewis Chen's ""Repent,"" one shootout briefly goes into ""bullet time,"" a slow-motion effect made popular in the movie ""The Matrix,"" in which a character floats through the air while dodging enemy fire. The 21-year-old Arcadia, Calif., college student says his 15-minute film took him six months to make."
"""Every e-commerce company today is a new-media company tomorrow,"" says John Textor, chief executive of Baby Universe Inc., which recently launched video, accompanied by display ads, on its Web site. He says cost pressures are eroding online retailers' traditional fear that display ads will distract users there to shop. ""Advertising margins are considerably stronger than e-commerce margins."" For other sites, video offers a chance to engage and entertain shoppers. Liberty Media's BuyCostumes.tv features more than 100 clips of costume-clad models, both kids and adults, walking across a stage at a local studio. Two hosts comment on topics like how a superhero's removable mask makes his costume a sensible choice for a party where food will be served. The site will soon launch a feature that allows users to upload their own costume commentaries as well, hoping the feature will generate interest and repeat sales. ""Video helps us convey that jewelry is like a haute-couture dress,"" says Shmuel Gniwisch, chief executive of Ice.com. ""We want people to feel like they are buying a lifestyle."""
"Google Inc.'s YouTube has become the top video-sharing site with millions of offbeat user-created videos, emerging hit series like LonelyGirl15 -- and untold numbers of illegally posted television and movie clips. Earlier this year, Viacom Inc., the parent of Comedy Central and MTV, sued Google, accusing the search giant of copyright infringement ""on a huge scale"" over the vast hoard of Viacom clips that users have uploaded to YouTube. Google has countered that it is protected by provisions of the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which shields Internet companies from liability for copyright infringements by their users if the companies act promptly to remove the clips. Kara Swisher talked with Philippe Dauman, Viacom's president and CEO, and Walt Mossberg spoke with Google Chairman and Chief Executive Eric Schmidt about the lawsuit. MR. DAUMAN: Well, it's a very imperfect system. After we started sending take-down notices, the week before the lawsuit was filed, do you know what was the No. 1 clip on YouTube? It was a South Park clip. Now in the meantime we're making our content available everywhere. We have today over 200 sites. We'll probably have over 1,000 a year from now. We want to be everywhere. We'd love to be eventually on YouTube. MR. DAUMAN: I think consumers will find great content wherever it is. If they want it, they'll find it on our sites, they'll find it on Yahoo. They'll find it everywhere. Consumers will gravitate toward high-quality content. Yes, user-generated content's great, TV shows are great, movies are great. People want a variety of things. We're focused on what we do best."
Google Inc.'s YouTube said it will expand a pilot program to put advertising in its online videos, giving more users a shot to make money from their homemade videos.
"HOW TO FIND IT: On YouTube.com, search for ""Nosferatu rescore"" for ""Nosferatu,"" ""Voyage threetails"" for ""Le Voyage Dans la Lune"" and ""JynxHauser"" for Ms. [Jessica Schreiber]'s videos. ""Nosferatu,"" the 1922 Muranu vampire classic, is one of the most frequently re-scored by professionals and amateurs alike. The most interesting amateur ""Nosferatu"" rescoring on YouTube is a series that adds sound effects -- footfalls, a creaking coffin lid -- and a modern-classical score that includes synthesizers and the occasional electric-guitar chord. The result prompts viewers to watch the clips as they would a modern horror movie."
In a demonstration, ScanScout's system displayed an ad for a sports- car brand at the bottom of a video clip as the people on screen were discussing that type of car. Consumers can click on the ad to pause the playback and see a video commercial, or be taken to the advertiser's Web site. By analyzing a video's content, ScanScout can help companies steer clear of subject matter and language that make them uncomfortable, potentially increasing the confidence of traditional advertisers in buying ads on amateur videos. It can also place multiple ads on a given video clip as what is being discussed changes, something that could let Internet companies tap additional ad dollars. ScanScout is already gaining some traction with customers. Online video site PureVideo Networks Inc. of El Segundo, Calif., says it plans to begin testing ScanScout, probably with standup comedy videos on its StupidVideos.com site. Blip Networks Inc. of New York has tested ScanScout on its blip.tv video site since the fall, and Chief Executive Mike Hudack says he believes it is more effective than just matching ads with the descriptive information the videos' creators supply. ScanScout co-founder and President Waikit Lau says his company lets advertisers pick categories of videos they want to target, in addition to having their ads appear alongside specific key words. He says ScanScout will at least initially tap nonvideo ads, such as graphical and text ads, to appear alongside videos to compensate for any shortage of video advertisements. And Mr. Lau says Web sites can run their high-priced ads as well as the ones from ScanScout, since its ads appear only intermittently during the clips.
"In a video posted on Superpages.com for Kent Floral in Kent, Wash., the camera pans a flower shop where a baby holds a yellow flower and an announcer declares, ""We're not your typical dot-com florist."" Lora Cree, the shop's owner, said she bought the video ad to let customers know her store wasn't simply an order-taking service. The video was made by a crew hired by Superpages.com; she had some input on the content. At the same time, advertisers have to be careful that they don't hurt business with ads that look too cheesy. Some directory businesses hire videographers who try to steer advertisers away from content that might turn off consumers. But it doesn't always work. Some of the ads look like snippets of infomercials with shots of cheery employees answering phones at a beauty salon, for example. Directory companies try to avoid problems by screening ads to make sure they're G-rated and include basic information about businesses. ""The ad shows customers the quality we deliver,"" said Mr. [Achmar]. ""And once they see the video they don't have to go further browsing through the Web site or have to do any reading anymore."""
"In recent weeks, Universal Pictures has posted several deleted scenes from the comedy online, advertising ""restricted clips"" in Web ads and the bonus material on television, too. Since then, the clips have racked up more than one million viewings combined on the film's official Web site and YouTube, where fans have copied and traded the clips. One scene, in which a ""Knocked Up"" character elaborately details his desire for more graphic sex between male actors in the movie ""Brokeback Mountain,"" has been viewed at least 493,000 times on YouTube. ""Knocked Up"" has already earned at least $73 million in U.S. tickets, more than any other R-rated comedy since Twentieth Century Fox's ""Borat."" For a circle of comedy writers and actors that includes Mr. Ferrell and ""Knocked Up"" director Judd Apatow, the allure of online comedy is hard to resist. Universal has quietly allowed more leaked material intended for the ""Knocked Up"" DVD to appear on the humor-video site funnyordie.com, founded by Mr. Ferrell and director Adam McKay. The scenes, in which ""Arrested Development"" actor Michael Cera and ""Spider-Man"" hunk James Franco (from Mr. Apatow's cult-favorite TV show ""Freaks and Geeks"") get into screaming matches with the director on the set of ""Knocked Up,"" were filmed as part of a mock documentary that Universal says it plans to include in a re-edited form on the DVD. Thus far, viewers have watched the clips more than 409,000 times, according to funnyordie.com. On Tuesday, the band's coming out with its sixth studio album, ""Icky Thump,"" available for streaming at theleak.mtv.com. Reviewers have lauded the title track's ""huge dinosaur-rock riffage"" and the band's return to more sonic experimentation. But the album also represents a commercial test: The color-coordinated pair's last studio release, ""Get Behind Me Satan,"" sold fewer than half as many copies as its previous effort, according to Nielsen SoundScan."
"IN THE LATEST sign of the influence of YouTube-style videos, Steven Bochco, the creator of hit TV shows like ""L.A. Law"" and ""NYPD Blue,"" is trying a new medium with a series of short, unscripted videos on the Web. Many of the anecdotes have sexual themes, including an entire category devoted to ""my first time,"" and sometimes feature off-color jokes and commentary. Mr. Bochco says he was looking for a topic that young people would be ""universally attracted to."" ""It's the antithesis of what I'm doing in my day job,"" Mr. Bochco says. ""It's just challenging to try and figure out in a different medium, that really has a different expectation."""
"Jason Martell, a 25-year-old self-described political junkie in Lena, Wis., is using MySpace to try to contact presidential candidates about a plan he has posted on his MySpace page for reducing energy consumption. Last week, he posted a note in the comments section of Mrs. [Hillary Clinton]'s MySpace page urging people -- Mrs. Clinton included -- to check out the plan. Mr. Martell, who is unemployed, also has sent personal notes to ""friends"" of Mrs. Clinton's on MySpace, asking them to pass his plan on to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Martell, who hasn't heard back from Mrs. Clinton or her campaign, doesn't think the candidates' MySpace pages are substantively different from, say, their own campaign Web sites. ""I think they're just advertising themselves,"" he says. Still, he says he thinks the pages nonetheless improve his chances of getting his message across to Mrs. Clinton and other candidates. YouTube and other Web sites say they don't plan to stop users from posting negative videos or comments. ""There's going to be a degree of unpredictability"" on the Internet, says Jordan Hoffner, YouTube's director of content partnerships. ""That's the nature of the medium we're in."""
"Mr. [Eric Schmidt] said the Internet giant continues to pursue deals that will let it show media companies' copyright content on YouTube but said there is a ""genuine disagreement."" Traditional media argue their content has a certain intrinsic value, while [Google] says ""prove it,"" he said, speaking at a Bear Stearns investor conference yesterday. ""That's often a difficult conversation."""
"One late afternoon last week, seven writers and editors were slouched around the writing-room at CollegeHumor.com's Manhattan office, bouncing around ideas for their next original online comedy video short. ""A meat-based poker game called High Steaks Poker?"" one chimes. Lame, is the collective verdict. A ""Miami Vice""-inspired re- enactment of the game ""Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?"" Bingo. CollegeHumor's expansion into video programming is a harbinger for what Barry Diller's IAC has in store for the rest of its Internet media conglomerate, a portfolio of some 65 brands. While user- generated content, from pet-tricks to video rants, has captured much of the buzz around video online to date, Mr. Diller is betting on a different formula: featuring professionally produced, ad-supported video clips geared toward highly targeted audiences. In addition to kicking off CollegeHumor's original content, Mr. Diller is launching 23/6, a multimedia comedy news site whose name is a spoof on the phrase ""24/7."" He's also adding original online-only content to HSN.com, the home shopping network Web site. That's not stopping Mr. Diller from making an aggressive push into an area he knows well. IAC's president of programming, Michael Jackson, poached some TV talent to run 23/6, which is a partnership with the Huffington Post, a left-leaning news and opinion site. The site, with a launch planned for March, will be edited by Daley Haggar, a comedian and writer who has worked on shows like Comedy Central's ""South Park"" and NBC's ""The Apprentice."""
"Such systems aren't foolproof, though. A recent search with the keywords ""[Britney Spears] and Paris"" turned up a video on Revver purporting to show ""Paris Hilton nude on the beach in st tropez."" The short clip didn't include any video of the celebrity heiress. In fact, it was an otherwise blank screen with a bit of text; alongside the video box was a description consisting of about 200 misleading keywords ranging from sexually explicit terms to ""ESPN"" and ""Microsoft."" After the 28-second clip, there suddenly appeared an ad for a Palm Inc. product. ""This is totally misleading,"" acknowledged Revver's founder and chief executive, Steven Starr. But ""this happens very, very infrequently,"" he added. Revver removed the clip yesterday after a reporter for this newspaper pointed it out. A Palm spokeswoman said she ""contacted Revver to express our surprise and displeasure, and clearly Palm and Revver agreed that the content was inappropriate."" A clip titled ""Hot Blonde Tells You How She Wants to . . .,"" which directed users to a site telling ""How to Make Buckets of Cash"" had garnered almost 500,000 views by yesterday and ascended to the No. 6 slot on the ""Top 10"" list featured on Google Video. The video's creator attached more than 100 misleading keywords, including sexually explicit terms and ""Harry Potter."" It Is possible that some users were actually interested in seeing the site's pitchwoman, but it Is likely that others were misled into watching it."
"Take General Electric's ""ecomagination"" campaign promoting the company's green energy and technology initiatives. Web surfers who checked out AOL News, Yahoo News or MSNBC.com on the afternoon of May 24 saw a live video featuring GE Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt and California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger at a ""Green is Universal"" news conference discussing energy issues. The video played on 95,000 people's computers, and even though it was appearing on news sites, it clearly wasn't a news story. It was part of an ad. GE is one of a growing number of marketers to use videos of live events to spice up banner ads. ""We're always trying to do something a little more innovative and entertaining and be more influential,"" says Jen Walsh, digital media director for GE. ""Year over year we try to push the envelope with technology, content and design. Broadcasting [online video through an ad] achieves that."" To be sure, some marketers question whether redesigning the banner ad is worth it. The ads might temporarily catch a Web surfer's eye because people haven't yet trained themselves to ignore them, but could easily fall into ranks of yet another ignored banner ad or a hated pop-up, says Greg Verdino, chief strategy officer at independently owned new-media marketing firm crayon. ""I think the first natural inclination for advertisers and agencies is for them to innovate within the four walls of the space that they've been given before you look to innovate by breaking that space and doing something that's truly first to the market,"" Mr. Verdino says."
"The clips, which run up to 60 seconds long, will assemble memorable moments from the movies, grouped under categories like ""Leia Confronts Vader"" and ""The Lost Limbs"" -- the latter a collection of various characters' limbs getting the chop. One category devoted to a much- maligned lizard-like character from the three ""Star Wars"" prequels urges fans: ""Don't be shy. Here's your chance to edit Jar Jar."" That notion may not resonate with fans who remember Mr. [George Lucas]'s reactions to other attempts to draw on his movies for inspiration. Last year, Lucasfilm sued a Maryland company that was making ""Star Wars""-like light sabers without the proper trademarks. Previously, it sued rapper Dr. Dre for using the booming sound effect that begins Lucasfilm movies to kick off his album ""2001."" And it also sued to block distribution of an animated pornographic movie called ""Starballz"" that featured some ""Star Wars""-like characters. The company says this situation is different. If fans are using ""Star Wars"" material for fun, that's one thing. ""If someone tries to commercialize it, that's where we've drawn the line,"" says Mr. [Jeffrey Ulin]. He says the company has long supported activities like an annual contest for the best ""Star Wars"" movie submitted by a fan; Mr. Lucas will pick this year's winner on Sunday at the ""Celebration IV"" ""Star Wars"" convention in Los Angeles."
"The fight began to brew last year, when the West coast ATAS began handing out ""broadband Emmys."" The Los Angeles group objected that one nominee was a version of the prime-time show ""24"" made for cellphones, called a ""mobisode."" That's a prime-time show, ATAS argued. East coast NATAS retorted: On the Internet, what's prime time? On Friday, March 16, the Los Angeles group's attorney George Hedges sent an email proposing that the two groups should agree to a ""mutual standstill"" on any new Emmy award ceremonies. ""The proposed standstill would apply to any ongoing or new projects involving new media content (including MySpace etc.),"" wrote Mr. Hedges, of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart Oliver &amp; Hedges LLP in Los Angeles. ""Both organizations have as a goal the working out a system to give Emmy awards for appropriate broadband programming,"" Dixon Dern, general counsel for the Academy of Television Arts &amp; Science. ""But for the West Coast to agree to that, we have to know that the Emmy will be protected."""
The first devices for moving Internet content to TVs from PCs, sometimes called media adapters, haven't sold well so far. PCs adapted for playing downloaded videos on TVs also haven't made much headway, despite the high-profile backing of Intel Corp., under an initiative called Viiv. Rivals, by contrast, see Web-delivered video as a way to neutralize the cable industry's ability to deliver video on demand. AT&amp;T Inc., for example, at the CES plans to show the latest version of Homezone, a combined satellite-TV and Internet-video service introduced last year. It offers a set-top box that receives EchoStar Communications Corp.'s Dish Network service and downloads video content off the Web. DirecTV Group, another large U.S. satellite-TV operator, has developed a high-definition set-top box that allows subscribers to retrieve photos and music from computers using Viiv technology. Sony Corp. allows users of the PlayStation 3 to do the same thing, though with a shorter menu. Users now can only get trailers and game demo movies from its so-called PlayStation Store on the Web. But the new game console comes with a browser that allows people to roam to sites such as YouTube and watch its videos on TV. Nintendo Co.'s Wii device can also surf the Web for videos or other content, but the company hasn't emphasized that particular use.
"The first episodes harken back to proven hits, from the high-school melodrama of Fox's ""The O.C."" to the typecasting of the horror movie ""Scream."" A more direct precedent might be Lonelygirl15, the extremely popular YouTube personality who seemed to hint at an eerie family backstory in her bedroom videos (which turned out to be concocted by a pair of filmmakers). ""Prom Queen"" gets off to a provocative start. A young woman wakes up in the grass, distraught and in her underwear. Inside, she contemplates a handful of pills and discovers a video camera in her bedroom. When she says ""Oh, God,"" her British accent comes as a surprise -- until we learn, in episode two, that she's an exchange student who is fascinated by the prom."
"The online show, called ""News at Seven,"" uses an automated computer program to comb online news outlets for major stories of the day and to pair them with video and still photos culled from sites like Google Images and YouTube. The newscast is delivered by an avatar -- a digital representation of a person."
"""There's a huge lack of high-quality inventory to sponsor,"" says Michael Shehan, chief executive officer of online video-ad network SpotXchange, a unit of Booyah Networks, which has run ads for the film ""1408"" and for companies like SunTrust Banks on Voxant's network of niche Web sites. Voxant has a team of researchers who spend much of their time searching for obscure Web sites in areas like sports, entertainment, news, health and business. It has a separate team of people who monitor those sites for offensive language or images. Sites that violate Voxant's decency policies, or those of its clients, are quickly pulled off the roster, says Voxant CEO, Jeffrey Crigler. A handful of companies are trying to fill the middleman function that Voxant provides. But the Reston, Va., company is one of the few that has struck deals with about 230 publishers including the AP, BBC and The Wall Street Journal, a unit of Dow Jones. When a Web site decides to embed a news story from Voxant, Voxant and the news provider each receive 40% of the revenue; the Web site receives the other 20%."
"The video blog ""Rocketboom,"" for instance, has been delivering three-minute news programs five days a week since October 2004. ""Grammar Girl,"" a popular podcast about proper language usage, gets an update every Thursday like clockwork. That regular schedule is crucial to the podcast's creator, Mignon Fogarty. ""When the shows I listen to don't come out, I get very frustrated,"" she says. Now Ms. Fogarty is exploring new niches. In addition to her own show, she now produces six other advice podcasts featuring other people -- including ""Mighty Mommy,"" about parenting, ""Money Girl,"" about finances, and ""Legal Lad,"" about the law. The network gets about a million downloads a month. Much slicker looking is the video podcast ""Ask a Ninja."" In each episode, a black-clad performer uses questions from viewers to launch comic riffs on the legendary Japanese assassins. In a recent show, a viewer asked, ""Do ninjas write poetry or are they just murderous shadows of death put on earth only to act against mankind?"" Answer: ""Wow, I didn't realize those were the only two options."""
"Three of his favorite shows -- ""The O.C."" on Fox, ""Scrubs"" on NBC and ""Grey's Anatomy"" on ABC -- all aired on Thursday at 9 p.m. this past fall. So Mr. [Adan Canizales], a New York University law student, devised an elaborate solution. He watched ""The O.C."" on TV and recorded ""Scrubs"" on his TiVo digital video recorder. But since his TiVo can't record two shows at once, he later opened his laptop to watch ""Grey's Anatomy"" online. Fox: Fox on Demand introduced free, ad-supported shows this fall to its www.myspace.com/fox page and on MyFoxLocal station sites in 24 markets. Viewers can stream previously aired episodes of eight shows, including ""Prison Break"" and ""Bones,"" which are updated after their TV broadcast. Some popular shows like ""The Simpsons"" and ""House"" aren't available, although a seven-minute preview of ""The Simpsons"" drew 1.4 million hits over three days in September. The MySpace site also provides interactive options, with links to the show's official site. NBC: Full episodes of six NBC shows, including ""30 Rock"" and ""Friday Night Lights,"" are accessible on its NBC Rewind video-streaming site at www.nbc.com/Video/rewind/. Like the other networks, shows are divided into segments by nonskippable ads. Every full episode is available for some shows, such as ""Heroes."" But some of NBC's most popular series, such as ""The Office,"" ""Scrubs"" and ""E.R.,"" aren't offered, other than in two-minute replays."
To help recoup some of their expenses, they made an arrangement with YouTube to show the entire film (the normal limit is 10 minutes), and struck an agreement with Spout.com, a movie recommendation site. For every new member that joins Spout by following a link on the film's YouTube page, Spout will give the filmmakers $1. So far, they say they have made more than $30,000.
"TV SHOWS from ""Will &amp; Grace"" to ""ER"" have broadcast live episodes to pump up ratings. Now that strategy has come to the Web with a new drama streaming live in prime time. Producer Kathryn Jones says that, until now, live content on the Web has been limited to ""some sports, some politicians, and a lot of people at desks with microphones."" Ms. Jones, who also stars in ""35,"" says the creators wanted to mix the accessibility of Web TV with the spontaneity of theater."
"""We're trying to keep our character palate as balanced as possible,"" says 29-year-old Eric Socolofsky, leader of the three-man creative team behind the site, which he calls a hobby. The unrefined visual aesthetic is meant to have a ""clip art"" sensibility, he says, drawing inspiration from popular online comics like ""Get Your War On"" and ""Red Meat."" Their goal, in part, was to manufacture a new user-generated Internet trend. ""I wanted to try working on a viral Web project,"" says 27-year-old Mr. [Ahmad Saeed], who designed the Quickcomic database. For Mr. Socolofsky, who thought up the concept, Quickcomic is a tool for expression. ""I've taken part in protests, both physically and digitally,"" he says, although these experiences often left him feeling frustrated and unsatisfied. With Quickcomic, Mr. Socolofscy envisioned something ""a bit lighter, a bit humorous and a bit more approachable."" Despite this political aim, early comic creators haven't focused exclusively on political topics. ""I'd say we mostly see people being ridiculous and apolitical,"" says Mr. Socolofsky of the more than 600 comics on the site so far. ""Of the rest, I'd say it leans to the left. But we don't encourage people to express one kind of political view or another."""
"While newspapers have had success building heavily trafficked Web sites, ""people still don't automatically think to visit a TV-station Web site,"" says Brent Magid, chief executive officer of media consultancy Frank Magid Associates Inc. ""Stations need to do something online to get noticed."" WITN, a Greenville, N.C., station owned by Gray Television Group Inc., is hosting video tours of houses for sale on its Web site, while Nashville's WKRN, owned by Young Broadcasting Inc., started blogs on everything from religion to hunting. Meredith Corp.'s WNEM in Flint, Mich., produced a whole program -- a type of senior-citizen talent show, including a voting element a la ""American Idol"" -- for its site. Prompting station executives to shift to an ""always on"" mentality -- breaking news on the Web around the clock -- has been hard, says Jonathan Leess, president of CBS Stations Digital Media Group.""They needed to understand that this is a threat,"" he says. ""If they continued with a holding-back approach it will severely limit their growth."""
"With ""KateModern,"" however, the creators aren't trying to hide the fact that a professional team is behind the scenes. Among the ""friends"" listed on the character Kate's Web page, there's a link to ""KateModern Production."""
"  About a month ago, Google caused barely a ripple when it unveiled technology to filter out copyright violations on its YouTube video Web site. After all, YouTube had been under constant fire from big media companies for hosting unauthorized clips. But now a move by AT&amp;T to adopt similar technology across its entire broadband network is raising the hackles of critics. The phone company is in talks with NBC Universal and Walt Disney about embedding a ""content-recognition"" system made by tiny Vobile Inc right into AT&amp;T's Internet transmission apparatus. The technology would be used to guard against illegal distribution of those companies' shows and films. Critics fear that by assigning a phone carrier a gatekeeper role over a broad portion of the Internet--some experts say half of US Net traffic may touch AT&amp;T's network--the system would threaten users' privacy, freedom of speech, and equal access."
  As Disney prepares for the August TV debut of High School Musical 2, that other kiddie music juggernaut, Kidz Bop, is pushing beyond its CD genre. Razor &amp; Tie is expanding the brand. Kidz Bop's recently redesigned Web site emphasizes music videos, many made by 6-to-12-year-olds, who upload directly a la YouTube. Traffic quadrupled during the new site's first two weeks, when there were more than 1.3 million video-clip streamings by 400,000 unique users.
  By the end of May, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) will report to its member studios the results of tests of a dozen computerized video-fingerprinting systems. This technology is designed to identify pirated movies wherever they exist on the Internet, automating a job that is now done by staffers who look for infringing clips with their own eyes. Fingerprinting systems could be a crucial link in the battle to control video content on the Net.
"  Fidelity Investments' Web site features a new educational effort, dubbed the Trading Knowledge Center. The advice is solid, the graphics cutting-edge, and the terrific-looking video tutorials deliver sometimes arcane material in easy-to-digest pieces. Each module contains links to well-produced short videos, typically three to four minutes in length. Narrated by professional actors and market experts, they're a cut above most video on the Internet. The advice and explanations run the gamut from the incredibly basic (""options are contracts between a buyer and a seller"") to the nitty-gritty of complex trading strategies (""the classic whipsaw scenario in which a short, sharp price reversal stops you out"")."
  Forget the powerful companies that are pouring money into new ways to bring TV into the Internet Age. Some video gamers have figured out their own solution. Using features pre-installed in their game consoles, they call up software from Orb Networks that lets them view Web sites, YouTube videos, or digital music collections on big-screen TVs. Don't try this at home if you aren't a real techie. Orb's controls and setup are plenty complicated.
  For the last several years, Finnish handset giant Nokia has been on a furious shopping spree. It spent $60 million on a rival to Apple iTunes called Loudeye, the largest independent music distributor on the Net, and followed that up by acquiring navigation software maker gate5 and media-sharing site Twango. Now it's clear what the buying binge was all about. At an Aug 29, 2007 press conference, Nokia unveiled plans to launch a slew of services for mobile users, starting later this year in Europe and Asia. The scheme includes an online music store aimed at the 200 million music-capable Nokia mobile phones already on the market, an interactive multiplayer game service, and a new venue for Nokia handset users to swap photos, videos, and music. It's the most ambitious bid by a phonemaker to spin profits out of content and services.
  Give it up for NBC Universal and News Corp., because in late March the two old-media titans made the biggest splash for a nonexistent product since the iPhone. News Corp. and NBC Universal have nothing to show for their ambitious Web video destination site and service (not even a name, so I'll call it NewTube), aside from syndication agreements with Yahoo!, Microsoft's MSN.com, and Time Warner's America Online, along with a fairly detailed business brief. Among other things, NewTube's videos can be embedded on any site, YouTube-style. But unlike YouTube thus far, they'll come with Big Media-approved copyright protection and, at least in some cases, a small share of ad revenues. For media geeks, NewTube (its executives, unsurprisingly, prefer the clunkier handles NewCo or NewSite) is big news. But the venture, expected to launch this summer, is merely one of myriad developments that will remake the world of Web video in the next few months.
  Having shifted much of their advertising budgets from print to online, big consumer-brand companies are increasingly attaching ads to selected words on newspaper and other media Web sites. So-called in-text advertising, purchased by companies such as Ford, Intel, and Microsoft, pops up in small windows when a reader moves a cursor over highlighted, double-underlined words in a story. Pausing over a link produces a bubble containing written pitches, voiceover, or even video. This year the Web sites of several Gannett newspapers, including The Indianapolis Star, The Arizona Republic, and the Reno Gazette-Journal, began using in-text ads. New York City-based Vibrant Media, one of the leading firms that specializes in selling in-text advertising, has nearly doubled the number of publishers showing its ads in the past year. The ongoing shift of ad dollars from print and TV to the Web has increased pressure on publishers to try unconventional formats.
  Imagine a bookstore that sells only works published by Random House. If you want a HarperCollins title, you have to go to the store down the street. In this world, you're permitted to read Penguin books either on the train or lying in bed, but Vintage books can only be read on the couch. It's absurd--but no more so than the world of video downloads as they exist today. The problem is that the quickly growing stock of movies and shows available for download is scattered among an assortment of stores including Movielink, CinemaNow, Google Video, and Amazon.com Unbox, as well as Apple's iTunes Store. And while there's a lot of overlap, there's also a significant amount of content exclusive to one or another service. This has happened because the digital-download business isn't like any other sort of retailing. It's no wonder none of these download services has developed any real traction in the market.
  In an echo of the tech bubble, once-iconic Internet analysts Henry Blodget and Mary Meeker are battling it out again over stock valuations. But this little rivalry involves estimates of how much Google can make by overlaying ads on videos viewed at its popular YouTube site.
  In the Web world, widgets are modules of software that people can drag and drop onto the personal page of their social network or onto a blog. There, widgets typically look like a little window or box, packing a bit of the functionality that you would get with a stand-alone Web site or software package. Widgets also can be storefront windows for selling products and services or digital billoards to which customized ads can be affixed. The land grab comes from the sudden realization by software developers, media companies, and retailers that by widgetizing their programs, news snippets, video clips, and products, they can stake out some prime Web real estate. People are increasingly spending their time with like-minded souls at blogs, online communities, and social networking sites. . In a sense, creating widgets is like unleashing a cloud of benign viruses. They carry your storefront or video clip or ad to anyone's Web page or profile. And those who like them can share them with thousands of people. They multiply, and as they do, they alter the very geography of the Web. That leads some technologists to conclude that these humble bits of code - or applications, as widgets are also known - could turbocharge a third phase in the Internet's development. The scramble began on May 24, when Facebook Inc. announced it would crack open its site and hand over significant economic and distribution power to widget developers. Major companies from media, publishing, technology, communications, entertainment, and retail are jumping on the widget bandwagon. Google Inc., the most powerful force on the Web today, is taking widgets seriously. The e-commerce implications are potentially huge. Instead of simply building a destination site where people come to shop, sellers can use widgets to bring the store to the buyers.
  It's the year 2014, and Googlezon, a fearsomely powerful combination of search engine Google Inc. and online store Amazon.com Inc., has crushed traditional media to bits. Taking its place is the computer-generated Evolving Personalized Information Construct--an online package of news, entertainment, blogs, and services drawn from all the world's up-to-the-minute knowledge and customized to match your preferences. And it's all collected, packaged, and controlled by Googlezon. This is the future according to EPIC 2014, a faux documentary posted to the Web in late 2004 by young journalists Matt Thompson and Robin Sloan. Thanks to their slightly tongue-in-cheek, Twilight Zone-inspired tone, the short video drew as many chuckles as gasps of dismay from the legions of mainstream media types and Web digerati who viewed it. Today, nobody's laughing. Here it is only 2007, and already EPIC 2014's picture of an online landscape dominated by one ravenous, all-knowing corporation looks to many people like--well, a lot like Google. All by itself. As the place nearly 400 million people each month start on the Internet, it's the No. 1 gateway to the Net's vast commercial potential.
  It's Tuesday in Mountain View, Calif., and that means Seth Sternberg, Sandy Jen, and Elaine Wherry have retreated to Fiesta Del Mar to hold their weekly founders' lunch. But this is no ordinary week for the three friends who 21 months ago started Meebo, a new type of instant-messaging service. Just a week from now, on May 15, they're launching a product called Meebo Rooms that could boost them into the big leagues of so-called Web 2.0 companies. With a year or two under their belts, they're trying to move beyond early-adopter audiences and go mainstream. With Meebo Rooms, individuals and media companies create pages around a topic--motorcycling, say, or Bollywood movies. Then visitors can step in to chat and post videos and photos. Like YouTube videos, these rooms also can be posted on other sites and blogs.
  Online video sites are now scaling back their focus on user-generated clips. What they want now is professionally produced programming. More than 57% of U.S. Internet users say they have watched or downloaded online videos, according to a July study by the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project. But they're shunning home videos in favor of news and movie trailers, followed by comedy bits, music videos, and television shows, according to a study by Burst Media. Some advertisers will pay $60-plus per 1,000 views to place their ads inside professional video content, says Suranga Chandratillake of blinkx. Ads on user-generated videos, on the other hand, go for as little as $7 per 1,000 views, says Chandratillake. Meanwhile, Hollywood is flooding the Web with slick new shows, produced specifically for the Net.
"  On March 13, Viacom sued YouTube for $1 billion. The Google-owned unit is ""stealing value,"" the complaint alleged, by airing snippets of shows like its Comedy Central hit South Park without paying for the right. Meanwhile, in the other part of Sumner M. Redstone's media empire, we have CBS literally cuddling up to YouTube. If CBS and Viacom have radically different approaches to the world's most popular video service, it's largely because CBS believes it needs YouTube (at least for now) and Viacom believes it doesn't (unless it gets paid). CBS and Viacom both want the same thing: a deal that allows them to leverage YouTube's mass appeal while getting paid. But hammering one out could prove maddeningly difficult. It's no secret that Google/YouTube, despite months of negotiations with a number of parties, has yet to sign a revenue-sharing contract with any major U.S. film or TV studio."
  Over the past year, the telecom industry has roared back to life. Credit a steady rise in appetite for broadband Internet connections, which enable easy consumption of watch-my-cat video clips, iPod music files, and such Web-inspired services as free Internet phoning. Indeed, this year broadband adoption among U.S. adults is expected to cross the important threshold of 50%. Capital spending is on the rise as companies invest to build high-speed networks. Private equity players are placing enormous bets on the industry, such as the $8.2 billion that Silver Lake Partners and the Texas Pacific Group agreed to pay for networking gearmaker Avaya on June 5. And the glut in broadband communications capacity is all but gone. About half of the Internet's transmission capacity was going unused in 2002. Today that pipeline has almost doubled in size, and yet the unused portion is down to about 30%. As a result, the price that companies pay for bandwidth in some parts of the U.S. is on the rise after six years of declines.
  Ricky Van Veen is editor-in-chief of CollegeHumor.com, a media play single-mindedly devoted to the (sophomoric) collegiate mind, and he's co-founder of its parent company, Connected Ventures. Last summer, Barry Diller's IAC bought the lion's share of Connected in a deal that valued the company substantially north of $20 million. Despite CollegeHumor's frank raciness, it has helped make ads for its site with some of the biggest brands out there, including Ford and Procter &amp; Gamble. The first ad CollegeHumor made was for a site selling kits enabling consumers to beat drug tests, back around 2001, so the outfit has come a long way. Before its sale, Connected, which also owns clothing company Busted Tees and video-sharing site Vimeo, projected it would gross $10 million in '06.
  Since mid-April CBS has inked partnerships with two dozen partners--from Bebo to Veoh--to syndicate its programming online. CBS also passed on taking an equity stake in the still-unnamed Web-video site that NBC Universal and News Corp. are assembling, because that would mean exclusively syndicating shows with the venture. That stake might be huge down the road, concedes CBS CEO Leslie Moonves. But he says the point of CBS's current moves is not to have one big property with an equity upside 10 years from now. All the Web wisdom in the world won't help CBS if the hits dry up. But CBS's moves are coherent philosophically, and about as in tune with how people behave online as one may expect a traditional company to be. Whether its competitors are teeny or titans, CBS can still walk tall.
  Since the beginning of April Comcast, which generates most of its $25 billion a year in revenues by delivering TV over cable, has signed a flurry of deals designed to allow it to do battle with the likes of Yahoo!, MSN, and others that intend to stream TV shows to folks' computers. It struck deals with CBS, Fox, and NBC to deliver their TV shows through Comcast's soon-to-be-launched Fancast online site. It plunked down tens of millions of dollars to buy Fandango, with a notion to turn the online ticketing site into a guide to TV shows available online. For Comcast, this sure looks like a change in strategy. Three years ago it was so hungry to add programming muscle that it was willing to pony up $54 billion to buy Disney. Now it seems desperate to join the Internet party and not be left out of the ad boom surrounding online video. Little wonder: After cable stocks' bullish run last year, investors are more nervous about the industry's prospects these days. Comcast shares are down about $3, to 27, from this year's high.
  Startup download service Jaman aims to become an online film festival for world movies and the works of independent filmmakers - the sort that don't have distribution deals with Miramax Film or Fox Searchlight Pictures. Outside of Jaman, the movies available for download today are mostly a subset of the limited offerings at your local Blockbuster, dominated by films that have recently finished their theatrical runs, box-office hits of the last few years, direct-to-video flops, and just a smattering of classics. Movielink's download service offers fewer than 150 of the thousands of movies made before 1970, plus a shamefully underpowered roster of 40 foreign films. Like nearly all movie download services, Jaman requires its own software player, which is available for both Windows and Mac OS X. The image quality is very good. Jaman's business model is also a step up from other services. As befits a Web startup, Jaman offers an assortment of social networking features.
  The Archos 605 Wi-Fi video player, on sale Sep 1, 2007, is reviewed. People tend to associate Archos with portable media players, but this silver-and-white model also surfs the Web, downloads content, and docks with a TV. Even novices should find it relatively easy to operate, thanks to intuitive icons on a high-quality 4.3-inch touch screen. The Archos Content Portal, represented by one of those icons, lets you download movies and TV shows from CinemaNow. There's also a music download service called BurnLounge and a link to YouTube, and Archos may announce several other content partnerships. On all models there's a built-in Web browser with Adobe Flash Player support, which improves the hunt for Web content.
  The ease of showing video online has led to a deluge of video from nonmedia types everywhere. This year Ford Models began cranking out all manner of Web videos. It's far too early to know if this ends up a short-lived sideline for the 60-year-old modeling agency or becomes another way to make decent money off its picturesque assets, but it's not crazy to think that this nonmedia company may figure out new ways to make Web video work. For one thing, models require little persuading to take star turns on film. Production quality, as you might imagine, is high: Modeling agencies know from flattering angles and lighting. Ford has cut ad-sharing deals with Web partners, and the models in the videos get around 30% of Ford's net.
"  The new Web video service Joost is barely in beta, but it's already subject to inhuman amounts of hype. It's not hard to see why. The service (say ""juiced"") is the next project of Janus Friis and Niklas Zennstrom, founders of Net phone service Skype. Its investors include Viacom and CBS. The company has just raised $45 million. On a good monitor, its satisfyingly full-screen playback looks gorgeous. Joost's executives singlemindedly stress devotion to full-length programs and their respect for copyrights."
  There's a reason why Amazon hasn't done much to sell books, movies, or music in digital form, even after acquiring Paris-based Mobipocket in 2005 and unveiling its internally built Unbox movie-download service in 2006. These ventures are still more an investment in the future than a near-term profit engine. Amazon's toe-in-the-water approach may seem odd, considering how it helped pioneer online shopping in the mid-1990s. You might think that fulfilling orders for digital media would be more efficient than pulling CDs off shelves, boxing them, and handing them over to UPS for delivery. But as long as digital music and e-books come with heavy restrictions on how and where consumers can use them, the market will be limited and rights holders will have the power to shake down sellers. For Amazon, there's still much more money to be made shipping real stuff.
  Video producers and would-be stars are pooling their talents and cheap digital cameras to create Wallstrip, a daily show examining top-performing stocks. The timing seems perfect, with pioneering online video series such as Rocketboom and Ask a Ninja drawing hundreds of thousands of viewers and Google Inc. snapping up YouTube for $1.65 billion. Many people are now betting that 2007 will be the year money starts flowing to top indie video creators. what really sets Wallstrip apart is its ambition in the business news arena. Wallstrip creator Howard Lindzon, a small-time hedge fund manager with an eye for Internet startups, is betting that a short, savvy, tongue-in-cheek approach will create a highly profitable niche among twenty- and thirtysomethings turned off by old-school business news. Instead of focusing on price-earnings ratios and the opinions of Wall Street analysts, most episodes of Wallstrip zero in on a single stock that has recently hit its 52-week high.
  Videos from YouTube and all other streaming media sites on the Web have one big disadvantage: For all but the very tech savvy, it's difficult to download them or take them with you on the road. RealNetworks has the best solution so far. The latest version of RealPlayer, which will be available for free download by the end of June, lets you record any streaming video available on the Web that is not copy-protected and save it for offline viewing. You can even download some of the content to many handheld devices, although this is harder than it ought to be.
