"  [...]according to Anne-Marie Klein, vice president of global media for the science-based hair care products company Living Proof, there is influencer gold to be mined on YouTube for smaller brands willing to use the right technology to look. Since OpenSlate and others help measure channels' ability to drive comments, sharing and other forms of engagement--rather than just pure view numbers, ""you can find influencers that are trending but are not the biggest ones,"" she said."
  According to Justin Maiman, executive editor, video for Business Insider, the two sites' September growth wasn't the result on a sudden increase in output on Facebook or a single viral clip, but rather a culmination of the company's devotion to video.
  According to Ms. Lagani, Hearst plans to provide advertisers with guarantees of how many times their influencer-produced content will be viewed, based on these influencers typical audience deliveries.
  According to research by ad-blocking measurement service PageFair, approximately 5% of Internet users globally used ad blocking tools during the second quarter of 2014, up from around 3% for the same period in 2013.
"  According to Vimeo Chief Executive Kerry Trainor, ""The Outs"" has a larger fan base than ""High Maintenance"" did prior to its second season."
  According to Vine's parent company Twitter, 200 million people watch Vine content each month globally. [...]Vine's unique format is big on Facebook -- people even create entire pages devoted to compilations of top Vines.
  Among subscription video services, Netflix Inc. dominates, followed by Amazon.com Inc., Hulu and others that have a strong presence in individual markets outside the U.S. Jonathan Miller, partner at early stage investment firm Advancit Capital and former chief digital officer at News Corp, pointed to important differences between the digital-music industry, where competitors essentially have the same catalog of songs, and the digital-video business, where rivals bid for the choicest offerings. Mr. Verna said there are synergies between music and video entertainment, citing the successful expansion of Apple's iTunes store from selling digital music to also offering movies, TV shows and podcasts.
  As a working mom, Abbie Schiller relied on 30 minutes of television in the morning and the evening to keep her toddler occupied. There was plenty of programming that taught kids to count and spell, but the Los Angeles resident saw a void when it came to social and emotional learning. So Schiller, who was head of public relations for ABC Daytime, improvised. Schiller left ABC in 2007 to focus full time on creating videos and books that help kids cope with strong emotions, like jealousy and anger, and sticky situations, like getting lost. She and her husband, Marc Gordonson, a digital advertising executive, sold their house and moved in with her parents.
"  As soon as Chad Horstman saw the YouTube video of a rat dragging a slice of pizza in the New York City subway, he knew it should be a Halloween costume. It was just so obvious, says Horstman, 37, founder of the online lingerie and costume store Yandy.com. They try to make things that people are going to instantly recognize, he says. With viral videos, it's pretty easy. Yandy expects $1 million in costume sales this year, about 30% of which will come from ""trend"" costumes -- outfits relevant only in 2015. Today, the more controversial a costume is, the more likely it is to go viral. When that happens, the real benefit for a manufacturer is marketing, not sales revenue."
  At a time when YouTube personalities are being cast in feature films and Vine celebrities are shooting television commercials for Hewlett-Packard, social media stars are attractive to advertisers eager to captivate young eyeballs. YouNow, which the analytics firm App Annie ranks seventh in the US among iOS social networking apps by gross revenue, is a favorite. The company says it logs 100 million user sessions each month, with visitors spending an average of 50 minutes a day, whether broadcasting their own videos or viewing those of others. Unlike YouTube, Vine, and most other amateur-video services, though, YouNow doesn't allow advertising. Instead, it relies on viewers to tip the people who make videos they like, taking a 30% cut for itself. People on YouNow agree to do things in exchange for followers or tips but the culture of the site shuns the exhibitionism-for-hire found on adult sites.
"  A YouTube representative helped Elise Strachan, creator of the popular channel ""MyCupcakeAddiction,"" apply for a grant from a joint venture between the Australian government and Google that funds higher-quality online video production."
  [...]big music services start paying the creators of the individual tracks he puts in his mixes, he said, he can't release them to very wide audiences, since he doesn't have time to get clearance for every song himself.\n
"  Corrections &amp; Amplifications Including visits via mobile devices, more than half of YouTube's users access the online-video service directly, according to a spokesman for Google Inc. A Business &amp; Tech article Thursday about YouTube's contribution to Google's profits incorrectly said most YouTube users reach the service via links or embedded video players on other sites. Josh Jacobs, chief executive of Accuen, the programmatic-advertising arm of Omnicom Group Inc., says ad buyers want to reach young fans as they build brand ""affinities."""
"  Even for the ""Worst Company in America,"" it's been a rough year. Comcast, the largest US cable provider, got that title -- and the Golden Poo trophy that comes with it -- from Consumerist, the advocacy blog owned by Consumer Reports, in April 2014. Customers surveyed in its hometown of Philadelphia said they regard its service as ""lousy"" or ""non-existent."" In February the company began sending customers personalized online billing videos that explain extra charges such as movie purchases. In March it expanded the team handling customer complaints via Facebook and Twitter from 20 employees to 60. It's testing a smartphone app that lets customers track the location of the technician headed their way."
  Even while working in 2013 to nail down one of the biggest corporate purchases ever, the $130 billion acquisition of joint-venture partner Vodafone Group PLC's 45% stake in Verizon Wireless, Verizon Chief Executive Lowell McAdam made several trips to Silicon Valley to discuss a TV deal with Intel Corp., people familiar with the matter said.
"  Ever since Susan Kare's 8-bit designs graced the first Macintosh screens in 1984, icon design, like digital typography, has been an important if unglamorous niche in the software business. The 2008 debut of Apple's App Store created a sea change in the industry, says Gedeon Maheux, co-founder of Iconfactory, a large design studio in Greensboro, NC, that does work for big brands such as Windows and Twitter. Icons and glyphs -- the term for symbols that blur the line between typography and pictograms, such as the triangular ""play"" button on online videos -- must be drawn for every screen size that Silicon Valley produces, from 5K resolution monitors to smart appliances and wearables. Even the tiniest icons start out big on designers' screens. This isn't merely for convenience while drawing them: Many clients require large-format versions of the icons for use in offline marketing materials. Multiple device resolutions are another issue."
  Facebook also said it would start sharing ad revenue with video creators in a bid to attract more high-quality videos to the social network and grab a piece of advertisers' television budgets. [...]Facebook today resembles even more closely a younger Google--growing rapidly with enviable profit margins.
  [...]Facebook has relied on technology partner Audible Magic to help it identify unauthorized video content through audio fingerprinting.
  First and most obvious is that Facebook lacks an established ad revenue model for content producers.
  For a spinoff of Breaking Bad that's meant to be a prequel, Better Call Saul opens in a strange place: the kitchen of a Cinnabon in a Nebraska mall, some time after the closing credits rolled five seasons of the show's forebear. The man behind the counter, sporting a bushy mustache but missing his trademark hairpiece, is Saul Goodman, the crooked defense attorney who played a supporting role on Breaking Bad. Since the days of Laverne &amp; Shirley and Frasier, spinoffs have been a time-honored way for network executives to exploit an established audience. Thanks to Netflix and other online-video services, the audience for Breaking Bad increased over time, with average weekly viewers climbing to 5.4 million the last season, according to Nielsen.
"  For marketers and content creators distributing videos on Facebook, the goal is to produce ""thumb-stoppers""--videos with images so compelling that users will stop scrolling through their news feeds on their phones, even when there's no sound. According to Mr. Kydd, Tastemade edits videos specifically with Facebook's unique qualities in mind."
  For more than a decade, pirating a movie or television show using BitTorrent, the Internet's notorious file-sharing protocol, required a modicum of work and technical ability. You had to use a clunky program specially designed to seek out and decode pirated files, then learn to refine its search tools to find the videos you wanted. Annoying banner ads within the search program were part of the deal, as was occasional malware. Pirating wasn't just a pain for the Hollywood studios whose products were being passed freely around the Web; it was a pain for unscrupulous seekers of free video, too. In the past year, a program called Popcorn Time has become the kinder, gentler face of piracy online, taming BitTorrent to make it far more user-friendly and less obviously sketchy. Although it's difficult to estimate total viewership of a pirate service, in Netflix's latest annual report to shareholders CEO Reed Hastings and CFO David Wells named Popcorn Time a major worry.
  From HBO and AMC to ESPN and the Tennis Channel, television networks have relied for decades on cable and satellite providers to distribute their programming. In the era of streaming video, they're trying to deliver shows and movies directly to viewers online, yielding a host of challenges more complex than negotiating fees with the likes of Comcast and DirecTV, says Paul Rehrig, SVP for business development at AMC. To build Shudder, Rehrig hired DramaFever, one of more than two dozen businesses working behind the scenes to set up dedicated online homes for old-school media companies. Some of the new online destinations make their money from ads; others, from subscriptions, like the small packages of streaming television channels out or coming by year-end from Comcast, Verizon, Dish Network, Apple, and Sony.
  Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. are launching gliders and blimps and laying fiber in the ground; cable TV operators are deploying Wi-Fi workarounds; there are now mobile-phone carriers in which Wi-Fi is the default; and cellular technology is the backup.
  If successful, the effort will make Facebook a more serious threat to Google Inc.'s YouTube in online video. [...]Facebook has slotted video ads into users' news feeds.
"  In January the messaging app Snapchat, known mostly for letting its young users share annotated photos that vanish shortly afterward, added a ""Discover"" feature, a menu of free channels from 11 media companies that publish video clips and news stories directly to Snapchat. Two people who work for Snapchat's channel partners say their daily video clips and written stories average more than 1 million viewers. Although it has an obsessive young audience coveted by advertisers that now totals more than 100 million, the app's main content is uniquely ephemeral, and the company says it doesn't track user behavior in the ways most social networks do to sell ads. Snapchat is also selling ads against feeds of short, nondisappearing videos from users, a feature called ""Live"" unveiled last summer. Some Live feeds have drawn more than 30 million viewers, say the three people familiar with Snapchat's viewership."
  It's been a decade since YouTube became the first household name in Internet video. In 2008, at the first NewFronts, an annual online marketing conference, Google-owned YouTube had the overwhelming majority of the viewership. Hulu was new, and Facebook had added videos just the year before. At this year's NewFronts, April 27-May 7 in New York, 34 companies are promoting online shows and vying for ad dollars. While YouTube retains a healthy lead in the $7.8 billion US market for online video ads, it's not keeping pace with rivals' growth. Over the past two years, many production companies that reliably crank out hit videos, some now owned by big media companies, have spread their work to other services.
  Linda Yaccarino, NBCU's chairman of advertising sales and client partnerships, declined to share any specifics on the deal, but implied that the company had been naturally headed in this direction given its ongoing embrace of digital media.
"  Mr. Skogmo, a former clip hunter for shows such as ""Country Fried Home Videos,"" which he described as a ""redneck version of 'America's Funniest Home Videos,'"" saw an opportunity to create a stock footage house of viral videos that could serve as a one-stop shop for media platforms and a business manager for rights holders."
  Not long ago, Clint and Wiley Hensley, twin 8-year-old brothers in Silver Spring, MD, made an important discovery. They realized they could use their family's Roku streaming player to watch SpongeBob SquarePants -- Nickelodeon's hit animated television series about a goofs' sponge and his neurotic underwater friends -- over the Internet through Amazon Prime Instant Video. Soon the twins were cycling through episodes until they'd lost count. Clint found Patrick, the dopey starfish, particularly hilarious. SpongeBob SquarePants began airing on Viacom's Nickelodeon in 1999, seven. years before the Hensley twins were born. Since then, significant changes -- the advent of Netflix, the rise of YouTube, the proliferation of DVRs, smartphones, tablets, etc. a -- have upended the home-entertainment market. The rise of on-demand viewing and social media -- SpongeBob has 59 million fans on Facebook -- has only helped drive the character further into viewers' lives. The SpongeBob film is the first from Paramount Pictures' dedicated animated division, which the company launched in 2011.
  Other marketing tactics customers seem to like are the new brands' simplified websites, social-media marketing that can involve answering people's questions about products and in some cases, offering to pay customers $50 for each person they refer. [...]many customers are taking part in a form of social-media promotion--the unboxing video, which in this case shows what happens when someone unboxes a memory-foam mattress and the rolled up foam grows like a shriveled-up sponge hit with water. Investors in Casper range from established venture-capital firms to actor Leonardo DiCaprio, singer Adam Levine, and hip-hop artist Nas, according to The Wall Street Journal's Venture Capital Dispatch blog.
  Record company executives have frequently complained that free, ad-supported music services such as YouTube don't generate enough revenue to sustain the music industry in the long term, and some are frustrated that Google has taken so long to offer the paid YouTube service.
"  Rob Schwartz, chief executive officer of TBWA\Chiat\Day New York said there has always been bad adverting and the problem now lies partly with the ""plumbing of the Internet that has inundated us with content and ads."
  Several big media companies had initially held out of signing onto Red because they didn't like the fact that the pool of subscription revenue generated would be shared by all content creators based on the amount of time people spend watching their content.
  Several big media companies have agreed to make content available for a planned YouTube subscription service that will let consumers watch videos without any ads, despite their initial reservations, people familiar with the matter said.
"  ""Social media is designed to be social, but a lot of people forget that,"" says Ted Murphy, chief executive of Izea, an agency that has helped organize social-media campaigns for Unilever, Walmart, ConAgra Foods and other big brands. In the mid-2000s, former marketing executive Wendy Piersall was struggling to generate revenue with her blogs on mother-related issues, until a post on children's activities in 2007 made the home page of Digg and sent her traffic soaring."
  Technology companies including Facebook Inc., Snapchat and streaming-startup Vessel are promising large TV-channel owners better terms for their video programming than Google Inc.'s YouTube, hoping to capitalize on mounting frustration with the Web giant in the entertainment industry. Vessel, which was founded by Jason Kilar, the longtime chief executive of streaming site Hulu, is offering media companies about 70% of the ad revenue for its coming short-form video service, plus a cut of the $3-a- month subscription fee, if Vessel gets the content exclusively when it is first released, people familiar with the discussions say.
  [...]that doesn't necessarily allow publishers to make money from videos that pop up in people's news feeds. Besides Facebook video, Mr. Peretti briefly touched on the recent $200 million investment from Comcast Corp.'s NBCUniversal .
  [...]the company -- which built its business by helping manage thousands of YouTube stars -- wants to become more of a youth marketing brand consultancy, and one that is much less YouTube-dependent, says Chief Executive George Strompolos.
"  The Federal Trade Commission on Wednesday said Machinima, an early leader in so-called multichannel networks, paid ""influencers"" as part of marketing campaign managed by Microsoft's advertising agency, Starcom MediaVest Group."
  The median age of prime-time TV viewing rose from 46.3 to 50.5 in the five years ending in June 2015, according to a Horizon Media analysis of Nielsen data.
"  The most impressive entry so far is ""City of Scars,"" a $27,000, 30-minute film that could easily be a template for a low-budget Batman TV series, containing highly believable fights, chases and action sequences, as well as copious philosophizing and moralizing (""Gotham City is sick of Batman's conscience,"" Officer Montoya snarls, ""and so am I!"")."
  [...]the only way fans could find NFL content on YouTube was through pirated clips, which are removed quickly, or fan-recorded footage from live games. [...]other websites won't be able to embed YouTube clips from the NFL channel.
  The successful expansion by Netflix into Australia, Canada, Europe, and Latin America over the last five years has increased investor confidence in the streaming service's plan to build the first worldwide, online television network. By the end of 2016, CEO Reed Hastings wants to reach the rest of the globe, a sprint through more than 150 countries across Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and the Middle East. That push begins with Netflix's September 2 entry into Japan, home to more broadband households than any of its current markets outside the US. Netflix figures the potential for an on-demand revolution exists, since much of Japan has access to broadband Internet at home, and people routinely watch videos over their mobile phones. The real challenge is to generate excitement in a place that isn't clamoring for Netflix, says Cameron Johnson, company executive working on the Japanese site. Hastings won't give hard numbers, but he's optimistic about Netflix's prospects.
  The Super Bowl halftime show has become a showcase for some of music's biggest stars in recent years, from Paul McCartney and the Rolling Stones to Beyonce, Prince, and Madonna. True to form, this year's broadcast, on February 1 on Comcast's NBC, will feature singer Katy Perry, one of pop music's biggest acts, with an assist by rocker Lenny Kravitz. Yet that star power isn't deterring YouTube from offering its own halftime show online, hosted by Harley Morenstein, the ringleader of food stunt group Epic Meal Time. The show, featuring some of YouTube's biggest stars, is part of a broader initiative to promote ads on the Google-owned site -- as well as to exploit America's cult of loving and hating the expensive ads that air during the Super Bowl, the year's most-watched television event. More than 60 million people subscribe to the channels of the participating creators, some of whom YouTube has promoted on billboards around the US.
  The track record for celebrity games--there are apps out now and in development from singer-songwriter Demi Lovato, rapper Meek Mill and actor Jason Statham--is mixed. Dude Perfect, a group of five men known for sports and comedy videos, released two versions of a self-titled sports game with the help of professional game studios.
  Using the screen name KittyPlaysGames, Kristen Valnicek was streaming herself playing death matches in various games, most frequently Counter-Strike, a popular first-person shooter. Fans follow her footage on a Web site called Twitch, which bills itself as a social network for video game fans. Typically, they watch Valnicek in a split-screen format, with her gameplay in one window and a smaller projection of her head and torso, captured via webcam, in another. Twitch, which was launched in 2011 as the side project of a floundering San Francisco startup, has grown into a global vortex of adolescent veneration. Twitch, which Amazon.com acquired in September 2014 for about $970 million, is the front-runner in this growing market, but it faces a serious challenge from a powerful adversary: Google's YouTube. Today, Twitch's headquarters are in an office building in downtown San Francisco. Most of the common areas are tricked out with video-game-inspired decor.
  Walt Disney Co. is doubling down on Vice Media, investing another $200 million as the youth-focused media company prepares to launch its first cable television channel, according to people familiar with the matter.
  When Amazon.com, Apple, and Google released updated versions of their streaming devices this fall, all three companies pitched them as a way to play video games on television. Roku is doing the opposite. While discussing the company's strategy shortly before the October 6 release of the Roku 4, CEO Anthony Wood had to be pressed to even mention gaming. Wood said that their attitude on gaming is that it's a feature, not a strategy. Roku has offered some games for years, but the CEO said he doubts his company's hardware or any of its direct competitors will make much headway with hard-core gamers. According to him, his competitors are misjudging the market because of the incredible success of mobile games.
  Why would marketers be OK with all this, particularly since they are accustomed to getting access to sophisticated analytics dashboards on other social platforms? Because Snapchat, which claims to reach 100 million users a day and generates 6 billion video views a day , is currently seen as the promised land for reaching millennials and younger demographics. According to Delmondo Chief Executive Nick Cicero, Mercato will help brands calculate a slew of key data points forSnapchat influencers , including how big their followings are, their average engagement rates and the projected performance of their videos.
  [...]Wildness plans to release some new proprietary research on this demographic's media and advertising attitudes next week during Advertising Week in New York.
  YouTube is seeking streaming rights to TV series and movies to bolster its new subscription service, intensifying its rivalry with Netflix Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Hulu in the competitive market for online video.
