If the company is able to launch the service it is now pitching to broadcasters--tentatively dubbed Move TV--viewers could watch programs in one of three ways: via a computer's Web browser; on a television that is either equipped with a built-in Internet jack or connected to a set-top converter box; or on a wireless, Internet-connected device like an iPhone or iPad. Because Move isn't laying cable or launching satellites, the company's executives argue they can charge consumers far less than traditional pay-television operators for a comparable suite of channels.
"Peter Noble, 43 years old, a social worker in Washington D.C., watches several hours of online video a week, including Crackle Inc.'s action miniseries ""Urban Wolf,"" which he found through Google Inc.'s YouTube, and anime shows (Japanese slang for animated series) on Hulu. Revision3 Chief Executive Jim Louderback attributed the increase in prime-time viewing to the growing number of people watching the site's shows on their TVs through partnerships with hardware and software companies."
The rise in prime-time viewing also underscores how consumers are opening up to a wider array of content during prime time, habits that will shape what they watch when they can get Internet and TV content on one device, said James McQuivey, an analyst at researcher Forrester Research. Chris Schembri, vice president of media services at AT&amp;T Inc., said the company started buying more Internet video advertising late last year as the caliber of content improved.
"On Friday, pay-cable channel Starz will premiere ""Pillars of the Earth,"" a $40 million, eight-part series based on the best-selling book by Ken Follett about the building of a gothic cathedral. Lush period dramas not only grab attention domestically, they help boost international sales because such stories are known around the world and aren't dependent on the latest American jokes or trends."
"TiVo says its Slide Remote's keyboard is ""finger friendly"" and makes it easier to search for shows using its latest set-top boxes, which offer a database of upcoming TV listings and connect with online video services such as Netflix and YouTube."
Vloggers have posted more than 5,100 videos showing them trying out Kinky-Curly products, and Ms. Davis says the attention has helped boost sales by 40% and push her seven-year-old company into profitability, as well as land its products in Target and Whole Foods Market.
