"Currently only a handful of companies offer broadband service. But Jupiter Communications, a New York market-research firm, estimates 2.8 million North American households will have cable modems by year end, with an additional one million or so DSL households. And there is still considerable room for growth: More than 48 million North American homes have cable-modem service available to them, while about half as many homes are within reach of DSL service from Bell Atlantic, SBC Communications and BellSouth Corp. By 2003, Jupiter estimates, 7.7 million households will use cable modems, compared with 5.7 million households for DSL.  Bell Atlantic -- which will become Verizon after its merger with GTE Corp. -- introduced its DSL service in October 1998, beginning in the Pittsburgh and Washington metro areas. By early May, the company had equipped more than 900 of its 2,500 central offices for DSL, and more than 19 million of the 44 million lines in its service area were ready for the service. Bell Atlantic began offering DSL service in New York last July, though the roll-out really gathered speed late last winter. Today, only a handful of the central offices serving the metro area aren't DSL-ready. At the end of May, Bell Atlantic had about 70,000 consumer DSL customers.  Meanwhile, Bell Atlantic and the Baby Bells are working on technological solutions to extend the range of DSL. At the same time, they're looking beyond DSL entirely. Mr. [Jeff Waldhuter] calls DSL ""an interim technology"" that he expects will be around for 15 years -- during which time Bell Atlantic will bring super-fast fiber-optic lines directly to more customers."
Strategic Advantages: Disney acquired Infoseek and created the Go Network Internet portal to try to turn itself into an online competitor of AOL, Yahoo and other Web titans. The Go Network includes key Disney properties like ESPN.com, Disney.com and ABCNEWS.com. Go.com's advantage is the strength of its individual sites. ESPN.com, for example, is the longtime leader in online sports news.
