"""There's going to be a lot of new business models in 2008 that are geared toward more monetization,"" says Pete Blackshaw, executive vice president of strategic services for Nielsen Online, the Web analysis unit of the Nielsen Co. Blog publishers could certainly use the help in making money."
Many viewers aren't in the habit of visiting destination sites for streaming, long-form video, preferring to watch short clips on Google Inc.'s YouTube or download full episodes from Apple Inc.'s iTunes.
"The video services have sought protection under ""safe harbor"" provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, which can shield them from liability as long they remove material when alerted by a copyright holder."
The New York Television Festival is an annual event where network shows premiere with full-on red-carpet treatment, and pilots from independent producers get Sundance-style screenings.

"Shot with handheld cameras, ""Princess"" has an edgy look that ties into the story (cellphone videos and text messages are the character's favored communication modes), but the movie wasn't made with YouTube in mind. A joint venture of NBC and News Corp. (which owns Dow Jones &amp; Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal), the seven-month-old Hulu primarily streams familiar TV shows and movies, such as ""Saturday Night Live"" and ""Men In Black,"" and offers tools that let viewers post these videos directly on their own blogs, Facebook pages and other sites."
Microsoft Corp. placed a bold $44.6 billion bet that buying Yahoo Inc. can transform both companies' flagging efforts to catch Google Inc. The software giant's unsolicited offer for Yahoo represents a 62% premium over the Internet company's recent share price and is a sign of Microsoft's determination to narrow Google's growing lead in the online advertising and Web search-engine wars.
Now our job as agencies is to put the proper message there, says Tracey Scheppach, senior vice president and video innovations director at Publicis Groupe's Starcom MediaVest, a media-buying group that works for companies such as Procter &amp; Gamble and Coca-Cola.
While new media channels, from blogging to online video sharing, could expand viewership of the Games, they also make it more difficult for organizers to control exclusive content, for which sponsors pay millions of dollars.
