  Viacom Inc. resolved copyright litigation with Google Inc. over the tech giant's YouTube video site, ending a seven-year legal fight that became a symbol of tensions between media companies that produce content and websites that let users share it.
  Yahoo Inc. is in preliminary talks to acquire online-video service News Distribution Network Inc., a deal that would help Chief Executive Marissa Mayer compete with Google Inc.'s YouTube for viewers and ad dollars.
  South by Southwest's film festival in Austin, Texas, ran an online program from 2004-08, and the Sundance Film Festival, held in Park City, Utah, hosts its first episodic story lab this fall, for writers and creators of content for online platforms and television.
"  The company's need for non-movie revenue streams came into sharp relief on Tuesday, when DreamWorks announced a $57 million write-down related to ""Peabody,"" and a first-quarter net loss of $42.9 million, compared with net income of $5.6 million in the year-earlier period."
  Vevo, a joint venture of Universal Music Group and Sony Music Entertainment that owns the rights to stream music videos on ad-supported services like Google Inc.'s YouTube, also is exploring a sale.
"  Rich Silverstein, co-founder and co-chairman of ad agency Goodby, Silverstein &amp; Partners, creator of the ""Got Milk?"" and Budweiser Lizards campaigns, says the Facebook video ads will need ""visual seductiveness"" in the first three seconds. Former Apple Inc. Chief Executive Steve Jobs insisted on being involved in the creative process when Apple launched iAd for advertising inside apps in 2010."
  Nathalie Tadena and Suzanne Vranica Maker Looks to Building Brand Beyond YouTube Maker Studios, one of the biggest producers of programming on YouTube, is looking to cozy up to marketers that want to master Web video -- even as the company looks to develop its own consumer brand.
  [...]users must sit through ads, and music fans usually have to pick songs one at a time, rather than entire albums or custom playlists. Besides no ads, users of the new music service on mobile devices are expected to be able to keep playing songs while they use other apps, as well as to store music for offline listening for a short period according to people who have seen preliminary versions of the product.
  The three major label groups, Vivendi SA's Universal Music Group, Sony Corp.'s Sony Music Entertainment and billionaire Len Blavatnik's Warner Music Group have struck deals with YouTube for the new music service.
"  Yahoo was the fourth-largest video site, with 52 million viewers, trailing Facebook Inc. and AOL Inc. For ""Community,"" the show's jump to streaming TV brings it that much closer to fulfilling the online chant for #SixSeasonsAndaMovie, a reference to a quote from one TV-obsessed character that turned into a rally cry for fans and cast members."
  YouTube takes a 45% cut of ad sales generated by videos on its network, but video creators don't have to share revenue derived from merchandising or branded entertainment--where a company's products are featured in what otherwise looks like conventional entertainment.
  In what may be another signal that Facebook Inc. wants to take on YouTube, the company has reached out to some of the Google Inc.-owned video site's biggest content producers and encouraged them to test distributing their videos on the social network, say people familiar with the matter.
"  The publisher's Running Press imprint will release ""The Pointless Book"" on Tuesday in the U.S. CBS Corp.'s Simon &amp; Schuster has even started an imprint dedicated to YouTube personalities, Keywords Press, in partnership with United Talent Agency."
  Google Inc.'s YouTube may give viewers the option to watch ad-free videos for a fee, according to a top executive at the Internet giant, a big change from the advertising-only approach that turned it into the world's largest online video website.
  Founded by former Hulu Chief Executive Jason Kilar, the company has raised $75 million in venture capital, according to Crunchbase, and is looking to secure programming ahead of a planned launch by the end of the year.
"  Figuring out how to show video ads to users will be tricky for Facebook, since the company has indicated that it doesn't plan to run ""preroll"" ads -- the TV-like video ads that run before online videos and are the industry standard."
  Walt Disney Co. is in talks to acquire popular online-video producer Maker Studios for about $500 million, said people with knowledge of the discussions, a deal that could give the entertainment giant better access to a young teen audience whose tastes are shifting to Web-based video.
  Disney plans to use Maker staff and tools to help put its existing content online, as well as to mine Maker's many channels for programs and personalities to exploit through the conglomerate's other businesses, said executive vice president of corporate strategy Kevin Mayer.
