  According to Mr. Norman, having direct access to Fullscreen's tools will help media buyers at various GroupM agencies evaluate which influencers might be right for their ad partners, based on the size of their followings, the kind of work they typically produce, and how their content resonates with their communities.
  [...]one of the first Revelmode projects will be an animated series featuring numerous members of the team, Maker Studios said.
  Mr. Banner said he's hoping the marketing blitz, as well as the Super Bowl association, will help consumers make the connection that PepsiCo is not just a soda company, but also owns brands ranging from Sun Chips to Sabra Hummus.
"  Mr. Neistat, who recently snowboarded around the snowy streets of Manhattan, said he and an assistant spent the first 36 hours after a video of that adventure went viral combing Facebook and YouTube for ""freebooters"" stealing his content. Mr. Neistat sat down with CMO Today to discuss his career as a video creator and entrepreneur, and how companies can make better branded content with YouTubers."
  [...]protecting against data collection is not as big of an issue when it comes to YouTube videos featuring paying sponsors, said Mr. Collins.
"  [...]there is a ""high demand"" for advertisers to have their messages reach individuals in places online that they are turning to for information about the election, he said."
"  Fullscreen will also feature ""Shane &amp; Friends,"" a celebrity talk show built around YouTuber Shane Dawson , and ""Kingdom Geek,"" which will feature Web video personalities Andre Meadows and Katie Wilson dissecting pop culture. Besides originals, the service will showcase older TV series like the aforementioned ""Dawson's Creek,"" MTV's late '90s animated hit ""Daria"" and former NBC Saturday morning staple ""Saved by the Bell."
"  Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the onus is on creators to flag infringing content to companies, who are obligated to respond to those ""take-down requests."" [...]of the case, YouTube was pushed to develop its ""Content ID"" matching technology that helps screen out copyright-infringing content."
  The initiative, dubbed Roker Labs, has resulted in the formation of something of a multi-channel network for live streaming video; the venture has helped develop shows, use data to inform programming, and even sell ad opportunities to marketers.
"  Amid complaints from video creators that their content is being stolen and re-uploaded across Facebook, the company on Tuesday announced the release of a new rights management tool for video producers and companies that aims to combat the ""freebooting"" piracy issue."
  Some marketers still view digital media and TV as completely separate entities that warrant separate budgets. [...]some TV ad buyers may not even have the ability to move money from a TV network to YouTube because those budgets are managed separately.
  Translink Capital partner Eric Hsia sits on the company's board, as does Jun Iwasaki, the president and chief executive of Japanese videogame maker GungHo Online Entertainment.
  [...]research firms like Nielsen and comScore are constantly evolving their digital ad tracking products.
  Magna Global, the ad buying arm of Interpublic Group of Cos., has signed an upfront advertising deal with YouTube, shifting spending from television ads in an effort to reach consumers more efficiently.
"  ""Brands are saying, 'Let's make sure we are maximizing our spending and reaching new people.'"" Some advertisers who have worked with MCNs on custom ad efforts involving digital stars over the past few years say that these campaigns have required much more time and energy than buying pre-roll video ads programmatically or working with an individual influencer."
  On Monday, Mr. Steinberg will debut a new subscription video-on-demand service for Cheddar priced at $6.99 a month, powered by IAC/InterActiveCorp's video platform Vimeo.
  [...]YouTube is the dominant force for user-generated video and offers ad-supported music videos and even feature-length movies.
  Activision Blizzard Inc., looking to draw more eyeballs and advertising dollars to its competitive-videogame content, plans next month to begin publishing daily live programming on Facebook Inc. The companies announced the collaboration Thursday at the NewFronts digital-media conference in New York, where Activision Blizzard pitched marketers on its business of competitive videogaming, also called e-sports.
"  [...]Vine lacks an ad product like Twitter's ""promoted tweet"" or Snapchat's sponsored geofilters, meaning that if a brand wants Vine as part of an ad campaign, it has to work with individual creators (or make their own Vines and pay to promote them on Twitter). Misha Talavera, co-founder at the social influencer agency NeoReach, said that in the last quarter, while marketing spend for social media ""influencers"" increased, demand for branded content on Vine has steadily decreased."
"  According to the VAB, the closest comparison in television to the 36 million views that Fullscreen touted is the Nielsen metric called total audience, which rolls up how many times people are exposed to a show over a period of time. Like views, total audience doesn't filter out duplication. Since August, ""Pretty Little Liars"" has accumulated a total audience of over 61 million.\n"
  Unlike social media-focused ad agencies, or even boutique firms that specialize in brokering deals between brands and small groups of influencers, these newer entrants are focused on software and data platforms geared for helping ad buyers find influencers who might be appropriate for a particular advertiser.
  The facility, located in Silicon Beach, Santa Monica, will house content production capabilities to strengthen the quality and turnaround time of influencers' content, business support services, and conference rooms to conduct business meetings.
  Facebook Inc. has inked contracts with nearly 140 media companies and celebrities to create videos for its nascent live-streaming service, as the social network positions itself to cash in on a lucrative advertising market it has yet to tap--and keep its 1.65 billion monthly users engaged.
"  Kevin Reilly, president of Time Warner's TBS and TNT networks, points to ""Super Deluxe,"" a new outfit the company set up to make short-form mobile content--the theme, he said, is ""subversive comedy""--for social channels like Facebook and Snapchat and incubate long-form content that might get on TV. Emerging ""virtual"" cable providers--such as Sling TV, Sony and soon Hulu--present a big opportunity, but to really win over cord-cutters media companies and their investors will have to accept that not every one of the TV channels they own will make it into the ""skinny bundles"" of the future."
  The list reviewed by the Journal also includes the Metropolitan Museum of Art and American Museum of Natural History in New York; internet celebrities such as Logan Paul, Andrew Bachelor and Lele Pons; DJs Armin Van Buuren and Hardwell; and sports teams such as FC Barcelona.
  By 2020, video will account for about 75% of the world's mobile traffic, according to an estimate from networking-equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. Unless you have an unlimited data plan, it's a good idea to save live video for when you're on Wi-Fi.
  Passing through a convention floor bustling with vendors, businesses and a host of opportunities for selfies, fans perused books published by CBS Corp.'s Simon &amp; Schuster Inc., which has produced many of the YouTubers' books.
  In an effort ramp up its outreach to marketers, Studio71, a multichannel network that produces web video content, named Matt Seiler as president of marketing solutions, a newly created role.
  The eye-popping funding speaks to the power of original web content aimed at audiences that aren't typically served by traditional media outside of Adult Swim, coupled with the power of using social media ad targeting and digital influencers.
  The bulk of the money is going to media companies such as BuzzFeed and New York Times Co. However, about 15% of the recipients named in the document are internet celebrities more typically seen on Alphabet Inc.'s YouTube, Twitter Inc.'s video-sharing platform Vine, disappearing photo app Snapchat or Facebook's Instagram.
  A fair number of publishing executives say they are now more bullish on platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and, in some cases, even Twitter when it comes to amassing video audiences. According to Scott Grimes, co-founder and nonexecutive chairman of the young male-oriented web company Woven Digital, publishers need help standing out amid the sea of YouTube stars.
  The series was commissioned for Kimberly-Clark by Shift2, a branded entertainment agency based in Toronto that specializes in helping marketers connect with millennials, and is produced by Smokebomb Entertainment, a production company that works frequently with Shift2. Since it made its debut in 2014, 72 episodes have been released and most are about five minutes long.
  Smosh Live, which was filmed live in a YouTube production studio in Los Angeles at 5 p.m. PST on Friday, peaked at nearly 58,000 concurrent viewers, said Keith Richman, president of the digital media company Defy Media, which operates Smosh.
  The European Union's executive branch this week is expected to propose a broad package of copyright reforms that, among other things, would help musicians and their record companies earn more by making streaming services such as Alphabet Inc.'s YouTube beef up their ability to fight piracy.
"  Last week, the executive body for the European Union proposed plans that could make content on video-on-demand services from national broadcasters and a variety of streaming platforms available to all member countries, potentially enabling a hit show to debut around the continent at once. ""Release schedules for programs have been set in stone for decades,"" said Michael Goodman, director of digital media strategies at the market research firm Strategy Analytics."
"  Ms. Rae, who first found fame on YouTube with her comedy series ""The Misadventures of Awkward Black Girl,"" is about to launch the show ""Insecure"" on HBO. The show is part of a growing number of shows focused on black characters, including ABC's ""Black-ish"" and Fox's ""Empire."""
  Google has acquired FameBit, a technology startup that helps marketers connect with digital influencers, in an effort to bolster branded content deals in online video, including on Google's video platform YouTube.
  LAGUNA BEACH, Calif.--While Netflix Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. are increasingly producing their own premium content, YouTube Chief Executive Susan Wojcicki said the world's largest video site is mainly focused on being a platform for other creators.
"  According to the blog post, Vessel Chief Technology Officer Richard Tom ""will be leading the charge on all things technology, product and team going forward,"" while Mr. Kilar's focus ""will be to ensure a smooth transition through the end of this year."""
  The app rocketed to the top of the rankings in Apple's app store in early 2013 within weeks of its debut, resonating with young people who were drawn to the short, snappy format.
  [...]the company has taken on an array of new roles in the past few years -- raising the question of where the service fits into a world awash with streaming video. To understand what YouTube is and what it wants to become, The Wall Street Journal's Dennis Berman spoke with the company's chief executive officer, Susan Wojcicki.
  The Beme app will be shuttered, with the company's 11 employees joining CNN to form a separate technology unit focusing on the new media venture and CNN's wider mobile video efforts.
  YouTube this year has been meeting with major record companies and artist-management firms, asking which acts they want help developing and then offering financial support for custom-tailored marketing campaigns--something it hasn't done in the past for musicians.
