"  ""Social media is designed to be social, but a lot of people forget that,"" says Ted Murphy, chief executive of Izea, an agency that has helped organize social-media campaigns for Unilever, Walmart, ConAgra Foods and other big brands. In the mid-2000s, former marketing executive Wendy Piersall was struggling to generate revenue with her blogs on mother-related issues, until a post on children's activities in 2007 made the home page of Digg and sent her traffic soaring."
  [...]the only way fans could find NFL content on YouTube was through pirated clips, which are removed quickly, or fan-recorded footage from live games. [...]other websites won't be able to embed YouTube clips from the NFL channel.
  [...]the company -- which built its business by helping manage thousands of YouTube stars -- wants to become more of a youth marketing brand consultancy, and one that is much less YouTube-dependent, says Chief Executive George Strompolos.
"  Corrections &amp; Amplifications Including visits via mobile devices, more than half of YouTube's users access the online-video service directly, according to a spokesman for Google Inc. A Business &amp; Tech article Thursday about YouTube's contribution to Google's profits incorrectly said most YouTube users reach the service via links or embedded video players on other sites. Josh Jacobs, chief executive of Accuen, the programmatic-advertising arm of Omnicom Group Inc., says ad buyers want to reach young fans as they build brand ""affinities."""
  [...]big music services start paying the creators of the individual tracks he puts in his mixes, he said, he can't release them to very wide audiences, since he doesn't have time to get clearance for every song himself.\n
  Technology companies including Facebook Inc., Snapchat and streaming-startup Vessel are promising large TV-channel owners better terms for their video programming than Google Inc.'s YouTube, hoping to capitalize on mounting frustration with the Web giant in the entertainment industry. Vessel, which was founded by Jason Kilar, the longtime chief executive of streaming site Hulu, is offering media companies about 70% of the ad revenue for its coming short-form video service, plus a cut of the $3-a- month subscription fee, if Vessel gets the content exclusively when it is first released, people familiar with the discussions say.
  According to research by ad-blocking measurement service PageFair, approximately 5% of Internet users globally used ad blocking tools during the second quarter of 2014, up from around 3% for the same period in 2013.
  Among subscription video services, Netflix Inc. dominates, followed by Amazon.com Inc., Hulu and others that have a strong presence in individual markets outside the U.S. Jonathan Miller, partner at early stage investment firm Advancit Capital and former chief digital officer at News Corp, pointed to important differences between the digital-music industry, where competitors essentially have the same catalog of songs, and the digital-video business, where rivals bid for the choicest offerings. Mr. Verna said there are synergies between music and video entertainment, citing the successful expansion of Apple's iTunes store from selling digital music to also offering movies, TV shows and podcasts.
  Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. are launching gliders and blimps and laying fiber in the ground; cable TV operators are deploying Wi-Fi workarounds; there are now mobile-phone carriers in which Wi-Fi is the default; and cellular technology is the backup.
  If successful, the effort will make Facebook a more serious threat to Google Inc.'s YouTube in online video. [...]Facebook has slotted video ads into users' news feeds.
"  Mr. Skogmo, a former clip hunter for shows such as ""Country Fried Home Videos,"" which he described as a ""redneck version of 'America's Funniest Home Videos,'"" saw an opportunity to create a stock footage house of viral videos that could serve as a one-stop shop for media platforms and a business manager for rights holders."
  First and most obvious is that Facebook lacks an established ad revenue model for content producers.
"  A YouTube representative helped Elise Strachan, creator of the popular channel ""MyCupcakeAddiction,"" apply for a grant from a joint venture between the Australian government and Google that funds higher-quality online video production."
  Facebook also said it would start sharing ad revenue with video creators in a bid to attract more high-quality videos to the social network and grab a piece of advertisers' television budgets. [...]Facebook today resembles even more closely a younger Google--growing rapidly with enviable profit margins.
  The track record for celebrity games--there are apps out now and in development from singer-songwriter Demi Lovato, rapper Meek Mill and actor Jason Statham--is mixed. Dude Perfect, a group of five men known for sports and comedy videos, released two versions of a self-titled sports game with the help of professional game studios.
  [...]Facebook has relied on technology partner Audible Magic to help it identify unauthorized video content through audio fingerprinting.
"  The Federal Trade Commission on Wednesday said Machinima, an early leader in so-called multichannel networks, paid ""influencers"" as part of marketing campaign managed by Microsoft's advertising agency, Starcom MediaVest Group."
"  The most impressive entry so far is ""City of Scars,"" a $27,000, 30-minute film that could easily be a template for a low-budget Batman TV series, containing highly believable fights, chases and action sequences, as well as copious philosophizing and moralizing (""Gotham City is sick of Batman's conscience,"" Officer Montoya snarls, ""and so am I!"")."
  According to Vine's parent company Twitter, 200 million people watch Vine content each month globally. [...]Vine's unique format is big on Facebook -- people even create entire pages devoted to compilations of top Vines.
  [...]Wildness plans to release some new proprietary research on this demographic's media and advertising attitudes next week during Advertising Week in New York.
  Linda Yaccarino, NBCU's chairman of advertising sales and client partnerships, declined to share any specifics on the deal, but implied that the company had been naturally headed in this direction given its ongoing embrace of digital media.
  Other marketing tactics customers seem to like are the new brands' simplified websites, social-media marketing that can involve answering people's questions about products and in some cases, offering to pay customers $50 for each person they refer. [...]many customers are taking part in a form of social-media promotion--the unboxing video, which in this case shows what happens when someone unboxes a memory-foam mattress and the rolled up foam grows like a shriveled-up sponge hit with water. Investors in Casper range from established venture-capital firms to actor Leonardo DiCaprio, singer Adam Levine, and hip-hop artist Nas, according to The Wall Street Journal's Venture Capital Dispatch blog.
"  Rob Schwartz, chief executive officer of TBWA\Chiat\Day New York said there has always been bad adverting and the problem now lies partly with the ""plumbing of the Internet that has inundated us with content and ads."
"  According to Vimeo Chief Executive Kerry Trainor, ""The Outs"" has a larger fan base than ""High Maintenance"" did prior to its second season."
  Several big media companies have agreed to make content available for a planned YouTube subscription service that will let consumers watch videos without any ads, despite their initial reservations, people familiar with the matter said.
  According to Justin Maiman, executive editor, video for Business Insider, the two sites' September growth wasn't the result on a sudden increase in output on Facebook or a single viral clip, but rather a culmination of the company's devotion to video.
  Record company executives have frequently complained that free, ad-supported music services such as YouTube don't generate enough revenue to sustain the music industry in the long term, and some are frustrated that Google has taken so long to offer the paid YouTube service.
"  [...]according to Anne-Marie Klein, vice president of global media for the science-based hair care products company Living Proof, there is influencer gold to be mined on YouTube for smaller brands willing to use the right technology to look. Since OpenSlate and others help measure channels' ability to drive comments, sharing and other forms of engagement--rather than just pure view numbers, ""you can find influencers that are trending but are not the biggest ones,"" she said."
  Several big media companies had initially held out of signing onto Red because they didn't like the fact that the pool of subscription revenue generated would be shared by all content creators based on the amount of time people spend watching their content.
  Why would marketers be OK with all this, particularly since they are accustomed to getting access to sophisticated analytics dashboards on other social platforms? Because Snapchat, which claims to reach 100 million users a day and generates 6 billion video views a day , is currently seen as the promised land for reaching millennials and younger demographics. According to Delmondo Chief Executive Nick Cicero, Mercato will help brands calculate a slew of key data points forSnapchat influencers , including how big their followings are, their average engagement rates and the projected performance of their videos.
"  For marketers and content creators distributing videos on Facebook, the goal is to produce ""thumb-stoppers""--videos with images so compelling that users will stop scrolling through their news feeds on their phones, even when there's no sound. According to Mr. Kydd, Tastemade edits videos specifically with Facebook's unique qualities in mind."
  YouTube is seeking streaming rights to TV series and movies to bolster its new subscription service, intensifying its rivalry with Netflix Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Hulu in the competitive market for online video.
  [...]that doesn't necessarily allow publishers to make money from videos that pop up in people's news feeds. Besides Facebook video, Mr. Peretti briefly touched on the recent $200 million investment from Comcast Corp.'s NBCUniversal .
  According to Ms. Lagani, Hearst plans to provide advertisers with guarantees of how many times their influencer-produced content will be viewed, based on these influencers typical audience deliveries.
  Even while working in 2013 to nail down one of the biggest corporate purchases ever, the $130 billion acquisition of joint-venture partner Vodafone Group PLC's 45% stake in Verizon Wireless, Verizon Chief Executive Lowell McAdam made several trips to Silicon Valley to discuss a TV deal with Intel Corp., people familiar with the matter said.
  The median age of prime-time TV viewing rose from 46.3 to 50.5 in the five years ending in June 2015, according to a Horizon Media analysis of Nielsen data.
  Walt Disney Co. is doubling down on Vice Media, investing another $200 million as the youth-focused media company prepares to launch its first cable television channel, according to people familiar with the matter.
