  Zero-rating involves internet service providers giving customers free data services, such as unlimited video streaming. Based on Mr. Pai's public statements and recent actions, the FCC chairman appears to oppose the Obama-era FCC judgment that the commission has the power to regulate internet service providers the way it regulates telecoms more broadly.
"  ""YouTube and even Disney have some blame in this situation,"" said Adam Kleinberg, head of San Francisco ad agency Traction Corp. ""YouTube is marketing their influencer network as a safe place for brands to interact . . . and [PewDiePie] is their biggest property."""
Disney has been integrating Maker, which it acquired in 2014 for $675 million, into its consumer-products and interactive-business unit since December in an attempt to find a winning strategy for the business , which had been flailing. The vast majority of people in Maker's YouTube network have made very little...
YouTube viewers world-wide are now watching more than 1 billion hours of videos a day, threatening to eclipse U.S. television viewership, a milestone fueled by the Google unit's aggressive embrace of artificial intelligence to recommend videos.YouTube's billion-hour mark underscores the wide lead of the 12-year-old platform in online video--threatening traditional television, which lacks similarly sophisticated tools.YouTube's success using tailor-made video lineups illustrates how technology companies can reshape media consumption into narrow categories of interests, a trend some observers find worrying.Google embeds YouTube videos in search results and pre-installs the YouTube app on its Android software, which runs 88% of smartphones, according to Strategy Analytics.[...]last year YouTube partnered with Google Brain, which develops advanced machine-learning software called deep neural networks, which have led to dramatic improvements in other fields, such as language translation.
"Mr. Zuckerberg had made a snap decision near the end of a product meeting in his glass-walled office in Menlo Park, Calif., to work around the clock to roll out Facebook Live, which took just two months. According to a tally by The Wall Street Journal, people have used Facebook Live to broadcast at least 50 acts of violence, including murder, suicides and the beating in January of a mentally disabled teenager in Chicago. The company was sharply criticized last July for removing live video from Minnesota woman Diamond Reynolds, who showed her boyfriend, Philando Castile, dying after being shot by a police officer during a traffic stop. The bad and good consequences reflect the inherent tension in Mr. Zuckerberg's vision of Facebook as a crucial part of the world's ""social infrastructure,"" a term he used in a nearly 6,000-word manifesto last month. More than a decade ago, YouTube offered a way to share videos without passing through traditional media channels and their careful editorial principles and federal decency guidelines, and the short delay to catch inappropriate content. [...]the young people who seemed to be taking an interest in Facebook Live were in the same demographic group that was drifting away from Facebook in favor of apps such as disappearing-message service Snapchat. Mary Anne Franks, a law professor at the University of Miami and vice president of the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, a group focused on stopping online abuse, said Facebook was naive about how Facebook Live would be used...."
"The juggernaut that is the Minnesota high-school boys' hockey tournament has lately had to make room for a new tradition: the annual All Hockey Hair Team viral video.The first annual All Hockey Hair Team video was a poorly edited, tongue-in-cheek celebration of the hairstyles of the players, from mullets to man buns.During the televised broadcasts of the opening games of the high-school tournament in Minnesota, each player is introduced and skates toward the camera, helmet off and hair flowing.[...]I would have concerns that [a player is] thinking about things other than the game,"" Mark Manney, the boys' hockey director at Minnesota Hockey, the local affiliate of national hockey governing body USA Hockey. ""Is the sideshow gettin' too big?"" Mr. King reassured his viewers in that video.Because hockey hair is a commitment."
  HSBC Holdings PLC and L'Oreal SA reduced spending with the technology giant after news reports that Google regularly placed their ads on controversial websites or YouTube videos, including some made by supporters of terrorist groups such as Islamic State and a violent pro-Nazi faction. [...]with estimates showing spending on digital ads surpassing that on television ads last year in the U.S., increasing scrutiny from advertisers is forcing internet companies to take more responsibility for the content on which they run ads.
"  ""The problem is thorny because not only is there such a long tail [of sites and videos], but there's so much subjectivity to what is or is not appropriate,"" said Adam Kleinberg, head of San Francisco ad agency Traction Corp. For years, advertisers have increased spending with Google, which helped pioneer the automated ad-buying system, called programmatic advertising, that gives marketers the reach and accuracy to target specific audiences on far corners of the Internet."
  A week after Google apologized for running customers' advertisements alongside objectionable videos, triggering a change in policy, its YouTube site is still rife with examples that are angering big advertisers and causing some to cut spending with the tech giant. Google's automated system placed ads for some of the world's biggest brands -- including Coca-Cola Co., Procter &amp; Gamble, Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. -- on five YouTube videos peddling racist and anti-Semitic content, according to a review by The Wall Street Journal.
  Selling ads against user-generated content was always a risky proposition, in which Google and its advertisers indulged with their eyes open on Google's YouTube platform. This predictable challenge has produced an alleged crisis for the internet, as businesses as diverse as Hyundai, McDonald's and L'Oreal march off in a huff and say they can no longer advertise on YouTube. That ads are ending up next to content they find inappropriate and offensive might seem a big yawn. Google's algorithms are good at picking out which viewers are likely to bite on which ads, then good at tracking these users across the web even when they linger on sites devoted to anti-Semitic rants or terrorism promotion.
  After news outlets highlighted such cases in recent weeks, some big advertisers reduced or pulled their spending from YouTube and the company promised changes to better police content and give marketers more transparency and control.
"  Mr. Taplin proposes some thought-provoking solutions to the challenge of getting people to pay for content: e.g., more robust guidelines from the Library of Congress on ""fair use"" (which is now a loophole for posting more than is ""fair"") and, in the music industry, the tiered release of songs so that creators can take in revenues before the songs appear on platforms such as Spotify."
"When CNN acquired Casey Neistat's social app Beme last fall, the news organization said that by this summer, the pair would have a stand-alone media company focused on ""timely and topical video and empowering content creators to use technology to find their voice."" [...]rethinking news content for a much younger..."
"Google, part of Alphabet Inc., and Facebook together accounted for 99% of the online ad industry's growth last year, according to Pivotal Research. While the newer ad formats drove a 52% surge in the number of clicks, they are less lucrative than search ads, Google's legacy business. ""There are real questions there that we need to manage well,"" Mr. Zuckerberg said, of the company's embrace of video as a future source of ad revenue. Ads..."
Facebook has been testing in-stream ads in videos over 90 seconds long for a number of months, but the addition of Watch content could create a host of new ad space for video advertisers to fill, provided the new shows succeed in attracting viewers and holding their attention.The addition of in-stream-only ad options might help attract ad dollars from marketers who have been reluctant to buy video ads in the news feed over concerns about the amount of time people actually view their ads.
