"IT MIGHT NOT qualify as an art form, but it's a format that's on the rise on the Internet: the fake movie trailer that twists an existing movie into a completely different genre. Through incongruous music and editing tricks, ""Psycho"" appears to be a romantic comedy and ""West Side Story"" looks like a slasher flick. The clips have become calling cards of sorts for artists and editors hoping to get noticed. Patrick De Nicola, a 21-year-old junior at Boston's Emerson College, says he's been fielding emails from television networks and comedy clubs since putting one online two weeks ago."
The explosive growth of Internet video is allowing people not only to find an audience for their amateur productions. Now they can actually earn money from them. San Diego-based Eefoof Inc., launched just over a week ago, shares 50% of its profits from text ads and banner ads with users who upload their own online video clips. Shares are distributed based on the number of hits a particular video receives. Recently launched Panjea.com, operated by Aware Media Inc., shares 50% of revenue from the ads appearing on profile pages to which users can upload their own video and audio files. Users can also sell their content via download at a price they set, in which case they earn 85% of the sale. In May, Blip Networks Inc.'s Blip.TV began giving members half of the ad revenue it earns from the still- photograph and video ads that users can have placed at the end of their videos. Revver affixes an ad frame to the end of a video clip and gives the users 50% of the revenue generated when the ad is clicked on, whether the video is accessed from a Web site, shared across instant-messaging services or emailed between friends. Watching online video, from comedy skits to failed cooking experiments, is fast becoming a favorite Internet amusement. Nearly one-quarter of Internet users watch online video at least once a week, according to the Online Publishers Association. To date, video sites have typically relied on members' good will and boredom to stock up on inventory that is funny, fresh and contagious. Now new sites hope that dangling cash perks before video uploaders will help them win traffic from more established players like YouTube and Google Video while helping creators share in the success of these sites. Using an ad- sharing service doesn't prevent filmmakers from also posting their clips on YouTube. YouTube did not answer repeated requests for comment.
"The two see branching out beyond ""Ninja"" as key to long-term success. ""'Ask a Ninja' was always kind of a proof of concept for us,"" says Mr. Nichols. ""We've looked at others who have been successful but they didn't know how to work with new talent and bring fresh ideas into the fold. Dick Clark makes more money in his sleep producing things than he ever does on camera."" EMMY-NOMINATED PODCASTERS Orrin and Jerry Zucker, ""It s Jerry Time"" itsjerrytime.com The Zucker brothers (no relation to the writer-director brothers behind films such as ""Airplane!"") were among the only amateurs nominated for the first ""iPod Emmy,"" awarded this year to shows made for portable players (AOL won for its ""Live 8 concert broadcasts last summer). Their sitcom-like video podcast uses collage-style animation to recount Jerry's day-to-day exploits. VIDEO PODCAST STARS Kent Nichols and [Douglas Sarine] ""Ask a Ninja,"" askaninja.com Some episodes of this video podcast, which features weekly monologues from a sarcastic ninja character, have had close to 1 million views on YouTube. Made by Mr. Nichols and Mr. Sarine, it regularly tops the iTunes podcast charts, and has inspired dozens of amateurs to make their own ninja tribute videos. They ve recently launched another show, ""Hope is [Emo],"" which stars a young woman and has risen to the top 25 on iTunes in part because of its affiliation with ""Ask a Ninja."""
"Then there is Bree, known as ""lonelygirl15"" on Youtube. She might be everything she appears to be -- a sweet, wide-eyed, intelligent-sounding teenager -- but YouTubers have their doubts. Her videos have been among the most watched and most discussed on YouTube for months now. Many of these exchanges -- posted in a comment section on the site -- center on a picture of famed 20th-century occultist and practitioner of ""black magic"" Aleister Crowley that can be seen hanging on the wall of her room. Is Bree a satanist? YouTubers have even been led to question whether Bree herself isn't someone's invention -- an actress with a script -- and whether her travails are luring viewers in to some darker plot point in the future. The cynicism and skepticism of our age, then, are still there. But watching YouTube is not like watching a polished movie because we don't know where we stand. The result is what one might call interactive entertainment on steroids. Viewers are not only trying to anticipate or even influence the next plot twist within a YouTube auteur's own terms. They are often busily trying to determine whether those terms should be accepted in the first place. One YouTuber has gone so far as to create a character he named ""BreesFather,"" who offers monologues in the guise of Bree's (supposedly) Satan-loving father. Thus he has made himself part of Bree's story, at least as experienced by YouTubers. He's not ""real,"" of course. But whether he's any less real than renetto or Bree herself is hard to tell."
The agreement, to take effect before the end of the year, illustrates YouTube's push to tackle the thorny copyright issues facing it and other sites that allow users to upload video content. YouTube is developing an automated system to digitally identify copyrighted music and video uploaded by its users. It will then give a percentage of revenue from any ads that appear alongside those videos on YouTube's Web site, if their owners have agreements with YouTube and opt for that rather than having the videos removed.
"YouTube's new system is the latest attempt by an online startup to transition from disputed copyright practices to a less-controversial business model. TV and movie companies are just starting to come to grips with how to manage video-sharing technology. There are signs they could be interested in cutting deals: Several TV executives say they have been in talks with YouTube and other video sites about ways to make some content freely available. General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal signed an advertising and content deal with YouTube in June. YouTube's agreement with Warner hinges on a digital system YouTube is developing to identify automatically copyrighted music or other audio, and related video its users upload. The system relies partly on what's known as ""fingerprinting"" -- comparing audio uploaded to the site to unique attributes of copyrighted content it already knows. YouTube's planned system is similar in some respects to one proposed last year by an online music startup, Snocap Inc., which was launched by Shawn Fanning, the founder of Napster. Snocap is seeking to help peer-to-peer music services and other online outlets become legitimate music distributors. YouTube said the audio-identification system could potentially be used to locate non-music content such as video clips from TV shows, and that it could eventually use video-identification technology as well. YouTube currently faces legal challenges. Robert Tur, the owner of Los Angeles News Service, named YouTube in a complaint filed in July in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. He alleges copyright infringement in connection with several videos that were available through YouTube. YouTube has said Mr. Tur's suit is ""without merit."" A similar case, which an adult-entertainment company, Io Group Inc., brought against a video-sharing site, Veoh Networks Inc., in June in U.S. District Court for California's Northern District, makes a similar claim. A ruling against Veoh could potentially set a precedent affecting YouTube."
"Much as with pitching traditional journalists, the key with blogging is to have something to say beyond just ""buy my product."" Mark Hughes, author of ""Buzzmarketing,"" calls this ""story wrapping."" Says Mr. Hughes: ""No one is going to talk about the guy who cleans gutters because there is no inherent story value. But they might talk about the guy who cleans gutters who wears a tuxedo."" It paid off. In recent months, Gopher State Taxi has routinely popped first on Google's sponsored link for core keywords, including: ""Minneapolis, airport, taxi."" Mr. [Kenny Kormendy] says his business has grown to a network of nearly three dozen cabs and he is off welfare. He estimates his total payout to Google is about $175 to $205 monthly, based on how many clicks his ads get. ""People with cellphones on planes can find me,"" he says. ""Almost every time I ask someone, they tell me it was on the Internet. And nine times out of 10 it's from Google. I don't have $50,000 to compete with [bigger taxi companies]. But with what I create off the Internet, I can blow them away."" Beyond that, it's critical to make your Web site search-friendly, or search-optimal, for certain keywords. In the early days, search optimization was largely a matter of inserting enough important keywords into your Web site that it would become visible to search engines. In some cases, this still works. Mr. Hughes, the author of ""Buzzmarketing,"" also does speaking for a living. He wanted to pit himself as a viable alternative for people looking to book Malcolm Gladwell, the best-selling author of ""The Tipping Point"" and ""Blink."" So Mr. Hughes created a Web page within his own site, buzzmarketing.com, that compares ""Speaker Malcolm Gladwell vs. Business Speaker Mark Hughes."" By using the words ""Malcolm Gladwell speaker"" roughly every 300 words on that page, a link to his comparison is now usually among those that pop up on the first search page of Google when you type the words: ""Malcolm Gladwell speaker."" Soon after that page went up, Mr. Hughes says, he got a $17,000 speaking gig from a company that located him that way. (Says Mr. Gladwell of Mr. Hughes's efforts: ""How could I not be flattered?"")"
"The U.N. has enlisted the star of hugely popular Web video series LonelyGirl15 and other Web video makers to participate in an ad campaign promoting an antipoverty event it plans Sunday. Jessica Lee Rose, the teenage actress who plays ""Bree"" in Lonelygirl15 videos posted on video-sharing Web site YouTube, will reprise the role that made her famous, sitting in a bedroom by herself, talking into a camera. But this time, rather than talking about a boy, ""Bree"" makes a plea for the antipoverty cause. The Lonelygirl's antipoverty video, like those made by other amateur video makers, has been posted on YouTube. The U.N. hopes the videos will spark buzz about its call for people around the world to ""stand up against poverty"" at rallies and other events planned for a 24-hour period Sunday. The online videos are part of a broader ad campaign, designed by WPP Group's ad agency Y&amp;R, also involving television. The ad is the first marketing pitch to make use of the LonelyGirl15 character but it may not be the last, Mr. [Greg Goodfried] said. After being approached by Y&amp;R about two weeks ago, the group agreed to participate in the ad because it was ""a really good cause"" and the issue of poverty ""is something that needs more attention,"" says Ms. Rose, the actress appearing in the ad. Mr. Goodfried says they are open to more marketing alliances but says they wouldn't want to let ""Bree"" become ""overcommercialized."""
"Moreover, [Google]'s huge investment in a site exclusively devoted to video (the YouTube acquisition is the largest in the company's history), is seen as a sign that Google has ambitions to dominate the field of video search much in the way it has done text. That's likely to set off a race among Google's competitors to stake out the market -- often deploying cutting-edge technology that they hope will give them an edge. ""Google's acquisition of YouTube marks a turning point,"" says Tim Tuttle, vice president of AOL Video, who says AOL is now trying to carve out its own niche in the space by searching across as many different sources of video as possible -- not just those it hosts. U.S. Internet users streamed more than seven billion videos in July, according to comScore Networks Inc. MySpace.com captured the largest share, followed by Yahoo and YouTube. But when measured by overall traffic, YouTube holds the top spot, with 46% of visits among the top sites tracked by market researcher Hitwise. ""There is no Google or Yahoo of video search,"" says Brian Haven, an analyst at market researcher Forrester Research. ""But with the content exploding and the momentum so strong, there is no way around it happening."" Other technologies that are still being tested include facial-recognition software and the ability to tag different frames in a clip to help search within videos. People who upload videos have their own complaints. Kevin Nalty, a health-care marketer from Doylestown, Pa., says figuring out which of his videos will show up where is a guessing game because the sites are ""bloated"" with inventory. As a result, the 39-year-old tries to label his videos with as many peripherally related words he can think of, including misspellings. By labeling one recent video documenting his attempt to tape wheels onto his daughter's sneakers with the word ""Healies"" -- a misspelling of ""Heelys,"" the popular sneakers with retractable wheels -- he was able to climb higher in various video- search results."
"""When trying to use any virtual technology in the political space, one still has to remember how people think in the real world. Something that doesn't work in the real world probably won't work just because technology is cool. In 2004, everyone was obsessed with Howard Dean's campaign's Internet strategy. It wasn't a new technology so much as a way to tap into Americans' desire to feel included in the political process. 'What Americans Know' is the definitive text on how to understand the American voter. I often go back and reread this key book for insights into the thought process of the voters."" That said, I don't think the risk is too great. YouTube is far different from Napster or Grokster. The core idea of YouTube is that a user creates a work on their own and then shares it online. The thrust of the business is not to encourage anyone to violate copyright, but rather to create works that they then can distribute online. The business model that YouTube features is a far cry from any of the early music file-sharing businesses. That difference in business model should make a big difference in terms of the copyright risk calculus. MR. [Stan Liebowitz]: Although the purpose of YouTube might be to encourage home-grown creative endeavors, some portion of YouTube files have been pure copyrighted files with no home-grown component, although it appears that YouTube has taken them down when requested."
"It's the next iteration of the burgeoning self-help industry: teaching people the obvious. After the success of do-it-yourself books and TV shows that offer expert advice on everything from baking your own wedding cake to remodeling a four-story home, a number of new Web sites are hoping to make money sticking with the basics. On eHow.com, one of the most popular topics is ""How to Boil an Egg"" -- broken down into six steps of written instructions. Videos at ViewDo.com, launched this summer, address such matters as how to peel and slice an apple. WikiHow.com provides a written tutorial on playing ""Hide and Go Seek."" (Step Three: ""Determine who will be 'It.'. . . Use 'One Potato, Two Potato' or similar method."") In many cases, the obvious is proving popular. On VideoJug, a lesson in ""How to Brush Your Teeth"" ranks well above ""How to Make Chicken Jalfrezi"" on the site's ""Most Viewed"" list. The site's video on ""How to Fold a T-Shirt in Two Seconds"" has been viewed nearly 40,000 times. The current version is a seven-step, 850-word guide, with five ""warnings,"" including one about peanut allergies, and 13 additional ""tips,"" such as ""spread peanut butter on both bread slices"" to prevent a ""jelly breach."""
"""It's such a mess because the [entertainment companies] have all of these valuable assets that are just locked up with so many people who need to sign off on them,"" says YouTube Chief Executive Chad Hurley. ""I don't know what it requires, if the government needs to be involved,"" Mr. Hurley laughs. ""I don't know."" Clips from TV shows present similar copyright challenges. A show such as the hit medical drama ""ER,"" for example, has dozens of rights holders. Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. owns the majority of the show, with co-creators Steven Spielberg and Michael Crichton having minority stakes. The studio licenses ""ER"" to General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal, Time Warner's Turner Broadcasting System for cable repeats and to local stations for weekend airings. Then there are the actors in every episode and details such as the music, which in most cases is purchased with broadcast rights only. Sorting out this rat's nest can take years. It took NBC Universal more than two years, for example, to clear the rights necessary to make the first two seasons of ""Miami Vice"" available on DVD. YouTube's challenges parallel those stirred up by virtually every new entertainment medium to come along in recent years, including DVDs, digital tracks sold by Apple Computer Inc.'s iTunes online music store, satellite radio, cellphone ring tones and online music subscription services. ""It's almost like technology has pushed far beyond the business practices and the law, and now everything needs to kind of catch up,"" says Chris Maxcy, YouTube's business development vice president."
"David Letterman's raw, heartfelt post-9/11 monologue? Removed at the request of CBS. Whatever Mr. [Bill Simmons] billed as ""the second greatest YouTube clip of all-time unless you're a Yankee fan""? Gone -- Major League Baseball's new-media arm objected. The trailer for ""Karate Kid III""? Removed for violating YouTube's terms of use. A clip from the ancient proto-reality-TV show ""Battle of the Network Stars""? Ditto. A clip of great baseball fights from ESPN, Mr. Simmons' employer? Going, going, gone. YouTube is ingenious. It's a pleasure. In some cases it's clearly been a boon for content creators. (Take the ""Saturday Night Live"" skit ""Lazy Sunday,"" an early YouTube favorite now available from NBC, or OK Go's video for ""Here It Goes Again,"" still available on YouTube.) There is genuinely popular material on it that isn't violating copyright, a claim that was hard to believe when made by Napster and its ilk. (Take this quietly haunting clip, seen more than 3.5 million times.) It can be argued that it serves a social good. (The FBI and the Los Angeles Police Department are investigating two officers for allegedly beating a suspect last summer -- in large part because of a video that's been seen hundreds of thousands of times on YouTube.) Certainly it's become a media force in its own right. (The Republicans might still control the Senate if not for Virginia Sen. George Allen's ""macaca"" remark, widely disseminated on YouTube.) Music videos don't belong on YouTube -- they're entire works of art in their own right, and a market for them exists. (Witness iTunes.) But beyond that, where's the harm? It's risible to suggest that content owners are hurt by videos of teenagers lip-synching to hip-hop songs, that the market for sports DVD is destroyed by fans being allowed to relive a team's great moment, or that artists reusing footage of some famous televised event destroys interest in documentaries. Mr. Letterman's post-9/11 monologue resonates for Mr. Simmons and others five years later -- shouldn't it be available online? I couldn't find it; a CBS spokeswoman said she doesn't think it's available. It should be: It's part of our common culture, along with those big sports moments, bits of televised history and famous TV moments. Isn't there some social value to making these bits of video simply and easily available for anyone and everyone to view, reinterpret and comment on?"
"At issue is the widespread presence of copyright music and video content on MySpace. In the suit, filed in U.S. District Court for California's Central District, Vivendi SA's Universal dismisses the frequently used label ""user-generated content"" -- alleging that much of the material on MySpace is stolen from copyright holders. Universal executives have been outraged by the leak. In a recent interview, Antonio Reid, chairman of Universal's Island Def Jam Music Group, said next week's debut of the Jay-Z album would likely be ""devastated"" by the leaks. ""I'm sure it's cut into our sales, and not by a small amount,"" Mr. Reid said. ""Even if it [sells] a million units it's not what it should have been."""
"Comedy Central, part of MTV Networks, has bought the TV and digital rights to the animated series, ""Lil' Bush: Resident of the United States,"" and will co-produce it with Amp'd Mobile and the show's creator Donick Cary, a TV writer who has written for ""Late Show with David Letterman"" and ""The Simpsons."" Comedy Central plans to air the half-hour show weekly beginning next summer during the popular 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. time slot, possibly right after ""South Park"" and before ""The Daily Show with Jon Stewart."" ""Lil' Bush"" will no doubt raise the profile of Amp'd. Comedy Central, however, says its decision to air ""Lil' Bush"" wasn't influenced by MTV Networks' ownership in Amp'd or Messrs. Messrs. [Phillippe Dauman]'s and [Thomas Dooley]'s past investment in the carrier. ""Washington is like a school yard,"" full of petty and juvenile behavior, says Mr. Cary, whose studio in Bulgaria does the animation work. Mr. Cary presented clips of ""Lil' Bush"" to Comedy Central while producing another show for the channel called ""The Naked Trucker and T-Bones"" that's scheduled to air in January."
"Teenagers have begun posting audition tapes on YouTube and MySpace for a series called ""The New 22,"" which its creator, production company Evolution Entertainment describes as a younger version of ""The View."" The casting call was placed through koldCast.com, a new site launched by Irvine, Calif., product-placement company EMmerzion Worldwide to let actors post online auditions. In exchange, the company gets dibs on selling product placements in movies and TV shows that use actors found through the service. Jessie Bronfman, a 25-year-old Woodmere, N.Y., resident who wants to be a TV host, has applied online for a video-jockey position and is hoping to score a role in ""The New 22."" She spends at least an hour a day searching for new online auditions through Craigslist, YouTube and Google, then cultivates her online network of friends who vote for her in video contests and help her get higher ""hit counts"" for audition videos."
"For advertisers, Web television delivers a dream audience of dedicated fans. ""The fact they've gone and sought it out [online] indicates they're pretty loyal, passionate viewers of a show,"" says Mark Simmons, national manager of advertising strategy and media for Toyota, which advertises on many of Disney's online shows. ""It's a step beyond appointment viewing."" Toyota says it's too early to tell how the online shows will affect the company's relationship with Disney, or its regular TV advertising. The car maker also won't disclose what it's paying for the online ads. Disney hasn't set regular rates for the shows, but they are likely to be considerably less than the $550,000 to $650,000 the network charges for a 30-second ad on the broadcast version of ""Lost"" or ""Desperate Housewives."" Fans make the same argument. For instance, an avid viewer of the mystery series ""Veronica Mars"" has created an interactive map showing locations from the program. Why? ""It's another way of generating publicity for 'Veronica Mars,' and we're constantly on the bubble in terms of ratings,"" says the map's creator, a 40-year-old college professor who prefers that her name not be used."
"New York -- EVERYBODY'S TALKING about YouTube -- and not always nicely, either. Doug Morris, who runs Universal Music, gave a speech the other day in which he proclaimed that the 19-month-old online video-sharing Web site owes his conglomerate ""tens of millions of dollars"" for allowing copyrighted music videos to be posted without permission. Mr. Morris's shot across the bow was quickly followed by the announcement that Warner Music, Universal's smarter competitor, has struck a deal allowing YouTube, which receives 100 million hits a day, to show its videos in return for a chunk of ad revenue. Says Warner Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr.: ""Consumer-empowering destinations like YouTube have created a two-way dialogue that will transform entertainment and media."" In recent months, jazz-loving friends have been sending me YouTube links to videos by Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and other celebrated artists, most of them drawn from films of the '30s and '40s and TV shows of the '50s and '60s. Some of this material is available on DVD, but most of it lingered in limbo until Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, YouTube's co-founders, made it possible for anyone with a computer to post and view video clips at will. Fascinated by the links unearthed by my friends, I spent the better part of a long weekend trolling through YouTube in search of similar material. When I was done, I'd found hundreds of videos, some extremely rare and all compulsively watchable, posted by collectors from all over the world."
