Ray William Johnson curses constantly, often gives his audience the finger and sometimes dresses up as a penguin, but he is attracting more than five million regular viewers to his twice weekly video commentaries, making him the biggest draw at Google Inc.'s online-video outlet. Mr. Johnson, who spikes his dark-brown hair two inches high, is the poster child for how some performers can harness the viral power of the Web to build a career, bypassing traditional media.
"Coming next to Netflix: ""House of Cards,"" a drama produced by David Fincher and starring Mr. Spacey as an ambitious politician, and a revival of the cult TV comedy ""Arrested Development."" Despite the influx of big-name talent, it's always hard to predict what will catch fire online--a homemade video of a precocious pet or amateur singer can command the kind of viewer numbers that network executives only dream of."
An Internet video seeking to draw attention to fugitive African rebel leader Joseph Kony now stands as the fastest-growing viral phenomenon in Web history, thanks to informal celebrity advocates and young viewers.
At a time when digital-video outlets like Google Inc.'s YouTube are trying to make inroads in the ad market, the annual upfront marketplace has become a barometer of advertisers' appetite for television.
Mr. Lin is one of a number of film and TV writers, directors, actors and producers who are venturing online to build YouTube channels with original scripted content in the form of short films and Web-size series.
Blue-chip advertisers that have bought ad inventory on the new channels include American Express Co., Unilever PLC, and Procter &amp; Gamble Co., which spent an undisclosed amount to dominate the ad space on YouTube's new Spanish-language channels for 12 months.
[...]with TV, YouTube's fast production process and the lower costs of online video means producers can make near-instant changes to their programs in response to viewer feedback. [...]YouTube channel producers say the rapid evolution of their content will eventually allow them to find the best way to attract large audiences for the long term.
The company also said it would do a better job of restricting copyright violators on the Web from participating in Google's advertising network, and that it would take steps to make it easier for users to find and access previews of copyrighted material, such as songs or videos, on the first Web-search results page, rather than having to click on links to other websites.
"  David Cohen, executive vice president at advertising agency UM, a unit of Interpublic Group of Cos., said the move by Everyday Health is a ""testament to both the YouTube channel initiative and an acknowledgment that as the media world continues to fracture, the best programs have anchors in multiple media channels,"" meaning both online and in broadcast."
  Last year, marketers spent about $60 billion on television advertising in the U.S., dwarfing the $2 billion spent for online video advertising, according to eMarketer Inc. Many media executives believe a shift is inevitable as the amount of time Americans spend viewing online video has increased, while time spent on watching programs on traditional TV sets has declined.
  In a city with no shortage of studios, YouTube Space is a new hybrid: a slick production facility intended as a talent incubator, where selected YouTube creators will be granted free access to complete projects, hone skills and collaborate with peers in a campus setting.
Ray William Johnson curses constantly, often gives his audience the finger and sometimes dresses up as a penguin, but he is attracting more than five million regular viewers to his twice weekly video commentaries, making him the biggest draw at Google Inc.'s online-video outlet. Mr. Johnson, who spikes his dark-brown hair two inches high, is the poster child for how some performers can harness the viral power of the Web to build a career, bypassing traditional media.
