The number of U.S. households that pay for TV service from cable, satellite or phone companies dipped for the first time last year after decades of growth, with 335,000 fewer households paying for service between the first and the third quarters, according to research firm SNL Kagan.
Large Internet properties have been forging partnerships with media companies for years, seeking a steady supply of content to satisfy users' interests in topics as granular as local news and obscure health conditions.
"YouTube proved a powerful catalyst for creativity; it gave the world Justin Bieber (but don't hold that against it!) but also improbable success stories like the Lonely Island, a comedy troupe of three guys in their 20s who parlayed making goofy homemade videos with their buddies into hit albums and gigs on ""Saturday Night Live"" (a show that has made television history by relying on the comic energy of several generations of ambitious 20-somethings)."
"""[...] frankly, 'hundreds' making a living on YouTube isn't enough and in 2011 we know we can and should do more to help our partners grow,"" he wrote. Since launching in March 2007, New York-based Next New Networks has built a platform for developing, packaging and building audiences around original web video programming."
"Sam Schechner Technology and media companies are racing to create Internet-video hits closer to the scale of traditional TV, as consumers start to watch more video on Internet-connected televisions and tablet computers. Shows that have their first appearance--or ""window""--online also can help Internet companies vie for viewers with traditional video distributors, like cable and satellite companies."
YouTube is still in the process of designing the channels and in recent weeks held meetings with Hollywood talent agencies such as Creative Artists Agency, William Morris Endeavor and International Creative Management to discuss the possibility of their clients creating YouTube channels, people familiar with the matter said. In addition to increasing the average time a YouTube user spends on the site, which stands at about 15 minutes a day, the moves are aimed at attracting new ad dollars, including a chunk from the $70 billion U.S. television-ad market, said people familiar with the matter.
The upgrade is part of a broader YouTube overhaul that is in the works, as the video site attempts to broaden its focus from homemade videos to include professional entertainment content and position itself for the rise of Internet-connected televisions that allow people to easily watch online video in their living rooms.
For the bloggers who use these sites, the exchange of copyrighted material and intellectual property--other people's photographs, music, lists of all the amazing things you ate for lunch--isn't just an aspect of the form, it's practically the entire business model. No, the Internet police probably aren't going to be kicking down your door to ask questions about that copyrighted photo of Ke$ha you just posted, but when it's almost as easy to do things the right way, why not at least try? It's a willful ignorance, says Bert Krages, a Portland, Ore., lawyer who specializes in intellectual property issues, and has written Legal Handbook for Photographers:
Michael Green, chief executive of The Collective, the management company that represents show creator Dane Boedigheimer, says items like hats, T-shirts and novelty items--he wants to develop a product as ubiquitous as the singing fish people mounted on their walls several yearsback--are in the works and will go on sale by year end.
"During the July filming for ""First Day,"" a comedy series for teenage girls, a woman with a spreadsheet and a red pen sat in a director's chair carefully checking off boxes. Web shows like ""First Day"" could provide a template for TV's future that harkens back to the era when advertisers not only sponsored but helped to create, cast and script ""soap operas"" and variety shows."
"Many brand advertisers were previously scared off by the large amount of user-generated, lower quality content on YouTube, said David Cohen, an executive vice president at Universal McCann, a media-buying agency owned by Interpublic Group of Cos. But in recent years, YouTube has accumulated higher-quality video and its new channels strategy ""is a clear signal of its commitment to creating immersive and engaging original content,"" he said."
The initiative also is aimed at positioning YouTube for the rise of televisions and cable set-top boxes that let people watch online video in their living rooms YouTube won't abandon the way it has made money--namely, by identifying popular user-generated videos and offering to share ad revenue with the creators, people familiar with the matter have said.
Google has struck deals with media companies such as RTL Group, IAC and News Corp. as well as online-video creators to produce original content for YouTube in the hopes that people will want to watch the Web shows on their Internet-connected TVs, people familiar with the matter have said.
YouTube, which is trying to become a next-generation video provider overseeing free online channels with professional-grade shows, is expected to give some content creators 55% of the resulting ad revenue after YouTube recoups the cash advances it paid them, some of the people said.
"Google Inc. on Friday announced the creation of around 100 online video ""channels"" on its YouTube website that will have new original programming involving celebrities such as such as singer Madonna, rapper Jay-Z, actor Ashton Kutcher and former NBA star Shaquille O'Neal."
Hardcore fantasy fans seeking to immerse themselves in their favorite fictional worlds are swapping tips on how to cook dishes like this grilled snake with fiery mustard sauce from the book 'A Feast for Crows.'
ESPN said Thursday that it has made its flagship cable sports network available live on Apple Inc.'s mobile devices for subscribers to pay-TV service from Time Warner Cable Inc., Verizon Communications Inc. and Bright House Networks.
