The first devices for moving Internet content to TVs from PCs, sometimes called media adapters, haven't sold well so far. PCs adapted for playing downloaded videos on TVs also haven't made much headway, despite the high-profile backing of Intel Corp., under an initiative called Viiv. Rivals, by contrast, see Web-delivered video as a way to neutralize the cable industry's ability to deliver video on demand. AT&amp;T Inc., for example, at the CES plans to show the latest version of Homezone, a combined satellite-TV and Internet-video service introduced last year. It offers a set-top box that receives EchoStar Communications Corp.'s Dish Network service and downloads video content off the Web. DirecTV Group, another large U.S. satellite-TV operator, has developed a high-definition set-top box that allows subscribers to retrieve photos and music from computers using Viiv technology. Sony Corp. allows users of the PlayStation 3 to do the same thing, though with a shorter menu. Users now can only get trailers and game demo movies from its so-called PlayStation Store on the Web. But the new game console comes with a browser that allows people to roam to sites such as YouTube and watch its videos on TV. Nintendo Co.'s Wii device can also surf the Web for videos or other content, but the company hasn't emphasized that particular use.
"The online show, called ""News at Seven,"" uses an automated computer program to comb online news outlets for major stories of the day and to pair them with video and still photos culled from sites like Google Images and YouTube. The newscast is delivered by an avatar -- a digital representation of a person."
"One late afternoon last week, seven writers and editors were slouched around the writing-room at CollegeHumor.com's Manhattan office, bouncing around ideas for their next original online comedy video short. ""A meat-based poker game called High Steaks Poker?"" one chimes. Lame, is the collective verdict. A ""Miami Vice""-inspired re- enactment of the game ""Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?"" Bingo. CollegeHumor's expansion into video programming is a harbinger for what Barry Diller's IAC has in store for the rest of its Internet media conglomerate, a portfolio of some 65 brands. While user- generated content, from pet-tricks to video rants, has captured much of the buzz around video online to date, Mr. Diller is betting on a different formula: featuring professionally produced, ad-supported video clips geared toward highly targeted audiences. In addition to kicking off CollegeHumor's original content, Mr. Diller is launching 23/6, a multimedia comedy news site whose name is a spoof on the phrase ""24/7."" He's also adding original online-only content to HSN.com, the home shopping network Web site. That's not stopping Mr. Diller from making an aggressive push into an area he knows well. IAC's president of programming, Michael Jackson, poached some TV talent to run 23/6, which is a partnership with the Huffington Post, a left-leaning news and opinion site. The site, with a launch planned for March, will be edited by Daley Haggar, a comedian and writer who has worked on shows like Comedy Central's ""South Park"" and NBC's ""The Apprentice."""
In a demonstration, ScanScout's system displayed an ad for a sports- car brand at the bottom of a video clip as the people on screen were discussing that type of car. Consumers can click on the ad to pause the playback and see a video commercial, or be taken to the advertiser's Web site. By analyzing a video's content, ScanScout can help companies steer clear of subject matter and language that make them uncomfortable, potentially increasing the confidence of traditional advertisers in buying ads on amateur videos. It can also place multiple ads on a given video clip as what is being discussed changes, something that could let Internet companies tap additional ad dollars. ScanScout is already gaining some traction with customers. Online video site PureVideo Networks Inc. of El Segundo, Calif., says it plans to begin testing ScanScout, probably with standup comedy videos on its StupidVideos.com site. Blip Networks Inc. of New York has tested ScanScout on its blip.tv video site since the fall, and Chief Executive Mike Hudack says he believes it is more effective than just matching ads with the descriptive information the videos' creators supply. ScanScout co-founder and President Waikit Lau says his company lets advertisers pick categories of videos they want to target, in addition to having their ads appear alongside specific key words. He says ScanScout will at least initially tap nonvideo ads, such as graphical and text ads, to appear alongside videos to compensate for any shortage of video advertisements. And Mr. Lau says Web sites can run their high-priced ads as well as the ones from ScanScout, since its ads appear only intermittently during the clips.
"HOW TO FIND IT: On YouTube.com, search for ""Nosferatu rescore"" for ""Nosferatu,"" ""Voyage threetails"" for ""Le Voyage Dans la Lune"" and ""JynxHauser"" for Ms. [Jessica Schreiber]'s videos. ""Nosferatu,"" the 1922 Muranu vampire classic, is one of the most frequently re-scored by professionals and amateurs alike. The most interesting amateur ""Nosferatu"" rescoring on YouTube is a series that adds sound effects -- footfalls, a creaking coffin lid -- and a modern-classical score that includes synthesizers and the occasional electric-guitar chord. The result prompts viewers to watch the clips as they would a modern horror movie."
"Such systems aren't foolproof, though. A recent search with the keywords ""[Britney Spears] and Paris"" turned up a video on Revver purporting to show ""Paris Hilton nude on the beach in st tropez."" The short clip didn't include any video of the celebrity heiress. In fact, it was an otherwise blank screen with a bit of text; alongside the video box was a description consisting of about 200 misleading keywords ranging from sexually explicit terms to ""ESPN"" and ""Microsoft."" After the 28-second clip, there suddenly appeared an ad for a Palm Inc. product. ""This is totally misleading,"" acknowledged Revver's founder and chief executive, Steven Starr. But ""this happens very, very infrequently,"" he added. Revver removed the clip yesterday after a reporter for this newspaper pointed it out. A Palm spokeswoman said she ""contacted Revver to express our surprise and displeasure, and clearly Palm and Revver agreed that the content was inappropriate."" A clip titled ""Hot Blonde Tells You How She Wants to . . .,"" which directed users to a site telling ""How to Make Buckets of Cash"" had garnered almost 500,000 views by yesterday and ascended to the No. 6 slot on the ""Top 10"" list featured on Google Video. The video's creator attached more than 100 misleading keywords, including sexually explicit terms and ""Harry Potter."" It Is possible that some users were actually interested in seeing the site's pitchwoman, but it Is likely that others were misled into watching it."
"IN THE LATEST sign of the influence of YouTube-style videos, Steven Bochco, the creator of hit TV shows like ""L.A. Law"" and ""NYPD Blue,"" is trying a new medium with a series of short, unscripted videos on the Web. Many of the anecdotes have sexual themes, including an entire category devoted to ""my first time,"" and sometimes feature off-color jokes and commentary. Mr. Bochco says he was looking for a topic that young people would be ""universally attracted to."" ""It's the antithesis of what I'm doing in my day job,"" Mr. Bochco says. ""It's just challenging to try and figure out in a different medium, that really has a different expectation."""
"The first episodes harken back to proven hits, from the high-school melodrama of Fox's ""The O.C."" to the typecasting of the horror movie ""Scream."" A more direct precedent might be Lonelygirl15, the extremely popular YouTube personality who seemed to hint at an eerie family backstory in her bedroom videos (which turned out to be concocted by a pair of filmmakers). ""Prom Queen"" gets off to a provocative start. A young woman wakes up in the grass, distraught and in her underwear. Inside, she contemplates a handful of pills and discovers a video camera in her bedroom. When she says ""Oh, God,"" her British accent comes as a surprise -- until we learn, in episode two, that she's an exchange student who is fascinated by the prom."
"CBS could announce as early as today agreements which will make available to these portals previously aired full episodes of shows such as ""NCIS,"" ""CSI: Crime Scene Investigation,"" the ""Evening News with Katie Couric"" and certain sports programming. Aside from MSN, a unit of Microsoft Corp., and AOL, a unit of Time Warner Inc., the New York media company is also expected to announce an agreement with Joost, an online-video service founded by the creators of the Internet-telephone service Skype. CBS will become the first broadcast network to sign with Joost. CBS's increased distribution could give it ammunition if it tries to negotiate a favorable deal with YouTube, the biggest video site on the Web with more than one billion videos streamed each month. CBS has tried to strike a broad, multiyear licensing deal with YouTube, but talks have fallen apart over such matters as licensing fees and the forcefulness of YouTube's efforts to police pirated clips."
"The video blog ""Rocketboom,"" for instance, has been delivering three-minute news programs five days a week since October 2004. ""Grammar Girl,"" a popular podcast about proper language usage, gets an update every Thursday like clockwork. That regular schedule is crucial to the podcast's creator, Mignon Fogarty. ""When the shows I listen to don't come out, I get very frustrated,"" she says. Now Ms. Fogarty is exploring new niches. In addition to her own show, she now produces six other advice podcasts featuring other people -- including ""Mighty Mommy,"" about parenting, ""Money Girl,"" about finances, and ""Legal Lad,"" about the law. The network gets about a million downloads a month. Much slicker looking is the video podcast ""Ask a Ninja."" In each episode, a black-clad performer uses questions from viewers to launch comic riffs on the legendary Japanese assassins. In a recent show, a viewer asked, ""Do ninjas write poetry or are they just murderous shadows of death put on earth only to act against mankind?"" Answer: ""Wow, I didn't realize those were the only two options."""
"""We're trying to keep our character palate as balanced as possible,"" says 29-year-old Eric Socolofsky, leader of the three-man creative team behind the site, which he calls a hobby. The unrefined visual aesthetic is meant to have a ""clip art"" sensibility, he says, drawing inspiration from popular online comics like ""Get Your War On"" and ""Red Meat."" Their goal, in part, was to manufacture a new user-generated Internet trend. ""I wanted to try working on a viral Web project,"" says 27-year-old Mr. [Ahmad Saeed], who designed the Quickcomic database. For Mr. Socolofsky, who thought up the concept, Quickcomic is a tool for expression. ""I've taken part in protests, both physically and digitally,"" he says, although these experiences often left him feeling frustrated and unsatisfied. With Quickcomic, Mr. Socolofscy envisioned something ""a bit lighter, a bit humorous and a bit more approachable."" Despite this political aim, early comic creators haven't focused exclusively on political topics. ""I'd say we mostly see people being ridiculous and apolitical,"" says Mr. Socolofsky of the more than 600 comics on the site so far. ""Of the rest, I'd say it leans to the left. But we don't encourage people to express one kind of political view or another."""
"The clips, which run up to 60 seconds long, will assemble memorable moments from the movies, grouped under categories like ""Leia Confronts Vader"" and ""The Lost Limbs"" -- the latter a collection of various characters' limbs getting the chop. One category devoted to a much- maligned lizard-like character from the three ""Star Wars"" prequels urges fans: ""Don't be shy. Here's your chance to edit Jar Jar."" That notion may not resonate with fans who remember Mr. [George Lucas]'s reactions to other attempts to draw on his movies for inspiration. Last year, Lucasfilm sued a Maryland company that was making ""Star Wars""-like light sabers without the proper trademarks. Previously, it sued rapper Dr. Dre for using the booming sound effect that begins Lucasfilm movies to kick off his album ""2001."" And it also sued to block distribution of an animated pornographic movie called ""Starballz"" that featured some ""Star Wars""-like characters. The company says this situation is different. If fans are using ""Star Wars"" material for fun, that's one thing. ""If someone tries to commercialize it, that's where we've drawn the line,"" says Mr. [Jeffrey Ulin]. He says the company has long supported activities like an annual contest for the best ""Star Wars"" movie submitted by a fan; Mr. Lucas will pick this year's winner on Sunday at the ""Celebration IV"" ""Star Wars"" convention in Los Angeles."
"In recent weeks, Universal Pictures has posted several deleted scenes from the comedy online, advertising ""restricted clips"" in Web ads and the bonus material on television, too. Since then, the clips have racked up more than one million viewings combined on the film's official Web site and YouTube, where fans have copied and traded the clips. One scene, in which a ""Knocked Up"" character elaborately details his desire for more graphic sex between male actors in the movie ""Brokeback Mountain,"" has been viewed at least 493,000 times on YouTube. ""Knocked Up"" has already earned at least $73 million in U.S. tickets, more than any other R-rated comedy since Twentieth Century Fox's ""Borat."" For a circle of comedy writers and actors that includes Mr. Ferrell and ""Knocked Up"" director Judd Apatow, the allure of online comedy is hard to resist. Universal has quietly allowed more leaked material intended for the ""Knocked Up"" DVD to appear on the humor-video site funnyordie.com, founded by Mr. Ferrell and director Adam McKay. The scenes, in which ""Arrested Development"" actor Michael Cera and ""Spider-Man"" hunk James Franco (from Mr. Apatow's cult-favorite TV show ""Freaks and Geeks"") get into screaming matches with the director on the set of ""Knocked Up,"" were filmed as part of a mock documentary that Universal says it plans to include in a re-edited form on the DVD. Thus far, viewers have watched the clips more than 409,000 times, according to funnyordie.com. On Tuesday, the band's coming out with its sixth studio album, ""Icky Thump,"" available for streaming at theleak.mtv.com. Reviewers have lauded the title track's ""huge dinosaur-rock riffage"" and the band's return to more sonic experimentation. But the album also represents a commercial test: The color-coordinated pair's last studio release, ""Get Behind Me Satan,"" sold fewer than half as many copies as its previous effort, according to Nielsen SoundScan."
"Google Inc.'s YouTube has become the top video-sharing site with millions of offbeat user-created videos, emerging hit series like LonelyGirl15 -- and untold numbers of illegally posted television and movie clips. Earlier this year, Viacom Inc., the parent of Comedy Central and MTV, sued Google, accusing the search giant of copyright infringement ""on a huge scale"" over the vast hoard of Viacom clips that users have uploaded to YouTube. Google has countered that it is protected by provisions of the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which shields Internet companies from liability for copyright infringements by their users if the companies act promptly to remove the clips. Kara Swisher talked with Philippe Dauman, Viacom's president and CEO, and Walt Mossberg spoke with Google Chairman and Chief Executive Eric Schmidt about the lawsuit. MR. DAUMAN: Well, it's a very imperfect system. After we started sending take-down notices, the week before the lawsuit was filed, do you know what was the No. 1 clip on YouTube? It was a South Park clip. Now in the meantime we're making our content available everywhere. We have today over 200 sites. We'll probably have over 1,000 a year from now. We want to be everywhere. We'd love to be eventually on YouTube. MR. DAUMAN: I think consumers will find great content wherever it is. If they want it, they'll find it on our sites, they'll find it on Yahoo. They'll find it everywhere. Consumers will gravitate toward high-quality content. Yes, user-generated content's great, TV shows are great, movies are great. People want a variety of things. We're focused on what we do best."
To help recoup some of their expenses, they made an arrangement with YouTube to show the entire film (the normal limit is 10 minutes), and struck an agreement with Spout.com, a movie recommendation site. For every new member that joins Spout by following a link on the film's YouTube page, Spout will give the filmmakers $1. So far, they say they have made more than $30,000.
60Frames will provide professional video creators with financing for their projects, secure advertising to appear alongside the clips, and distribute the videos online through video-sharing sites and other Internet-based services. The company plans to focus on short-form content, including serialized sketch comedies. Filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen will be the first video creators 60Frames works with.
"With ""KateModern,"" however, the creators aren't trying to hide the fact that a professional team is behind the scenes. Among the ""friends"" listed on the character Kate's Web page, there's a link to ""KateModern Production."""
"TV SHOWS from ""Will &amp; Grace"" to ""ER"" have broadcast live episodes to pump up ratings. Now that strategy has come to the Web with a new drama streaming live in prime time. Producer Kathryn Jones says that, until now, live content on the Web has been limited to ""some sports, some politicians, and a lot of people at desks with microphones."" Ms. Jones, who also stars in ""35,"" says the creators wanted to mix the accessibility of Web TV with the spontaneity of theater."
"""Cognizance"" is one of hundreds of movies known as ""brickfilms"" that are getting attention on YouTube and other video-sharing sites. Amateur filmmakers use Lego pieces to create characters and scenes, sometimes spending months painstakingly arranging and rearranging the blocks before the camera. Re-creations of famous moments in ""Star Wars"" and ""Titanic,"" faithfully rendered in the primary colors of Lego pieces and stitched together from thousands of stop-motion frames, have drawn hundreds of thousands of viewings. Many of the productions are original films with elaborate plotlines, soundtracks and voice- overs. ""I was still in junior high, playing with Legos, and the Internet and I collided,"" says Robinson Wood, 18, of San Jose, Calif., whose ""Frankenstein"" and ""Grace"" are often cited by fans as classic brickfilms. In Mr. Wood's plastic retelling of Mary Shelley's monster tale -- which some viewers have found too violent for a film made from children's toys -- he used red clay to simulate blood, and achieved the sound of breaking glass by dropping a peanut butter jar eight feet onto concrete. As brickfilmers try to one-up one another with increasingly creative special effects, they find themselves drawing from an unusual list of household items. Artists realized that they could simulate shattered glass by slowly cutting apart plastic wrap, or a clear sheet of sugar. In Lewis Chen's ""Repent,"" one shootout briefly goes into ""bullet time,"" a slow-motion effect made popular in the movie ""The Matrix,"" in which a character floats through the air while dodging enemy fire. The 21-year-old Arcadia, Calif., college student says his 15-minute film took him six months to make."
Google Inc.'s YouTube said it will expand a pilot program to put advertising in its online videos, giving more users a shot to make money from their homemade videos.
"Three of his favorite shows -- ""The O.C."" on Fox, ""Scrubs"" on NBC and ""Grey's Anatomy"" on ABC -- all aired on Thursday at 9 p.m. this past fall. So Mr. [Adan Canizales], a New York University law student, devised an elaborate solution. He watched ""The O.C."" on TV and recorded ""Scrubs"" on his TiVo digital video recorder. But since his TiVo can't record two shows at once, he later opened his laptop to watch ""Grey's Anatomy"" online. Fox: Fox on Demand introduced free, ad-supported shows this fall to its www.myspace.com/fox page and on MyFoxLocal station sites in 24 markets. Viewers can stream previously aired episodes of eight shows, including ""Prison Break"" and ""Bones,"" which are updated after their TV broadcast. Some popular shows like ""The Simpsons"" and ""House"" aren't available, although a seven-minute preview of ""The Simpsons"" drew 1.4 million hits over three days in September. The MySpace site also provides interactive options, with links to the show's official site. NBC: Full episodes of six NBC shows, including ""30 Rock"" and ""Friday Night Lights,"" are accessible on its NBC Rewind video-streaming site at www.nbc.com/Video/rewind/. Like the other networks, shows are divided into segments by nonskippable ads. Every full episode is available for some shows, such as ""Heroes."" But some of NBC's most popular series, such as ""The Office,"" ""Scrubs"" and ""E.R.,"" aren't offered, other than in two-minute replays."
"Mr. [Eric Schmidt] said the Internet giant continues to pursue deals that will let it show media companies' copyright content on YouTube but said there is a ""genuine disagreement."" Traditional media argue their content has a certain intrinsic value, while [Google] says ""prove it,"" he said, speaking at a Bear Stearns investor conference yesterday. ""That's often a difficult conversation."""
"Another big marketer that was reported as cutting spending on measured media was Johnson &amp; Johnson, down 20% overall. Much of the cut occurred in J&amp;J's national TV budget -- which accounts for 60% of the company's total ad spending. The national TV budget was down 25%, or $254 million, while ""measured"" Web spending rose slightly. The TV cutback follows J&amp;J's decision last year to sit out the ""upfront"" TV ad-sales market -- where networks sell most of their ad inventory. J&amp;J said this week it planned to sit out this year's upfront as well. ""As a matter of policy we do not comment on ad spending,"" a spokesman for J&amp;J says. Cable's overall slowdown also reflects a shift of marketers to newer media, media buyers say. Advertisers looking for niche or high-profile audiences such as young men ""were the first to migrate to cable and now those advertisers are moving from cable and broadcast to the Internet,"" says John Spiropoulos, vice president, group research director at Publicis Groupe's MediaVest. ""You can take some money from cable and get a similar reach from the Internet."" TNS's report also is likely to confirm some viewers' suspicions about the amount of product placement -- particularly in reality shows such as Fox's ""American Idol"" and NBC's ""The Biggest Loser."" TNS estimated that in an hour of a reality show, 55% of the time would be taken up either by commercials or by program scenes that included appearances by different brands. Judges on ""American Idol,"" for instance, drink from cups marked prominently with the name of show sponsor Coke."
"The fight began to brew last year, when the West coast ATAS began handing out ""broadband Emmys."" The Los Angeles group objected that one nominee was a version of the prime-time show ""24"" made for cellphones, called a ""mobisode."" That's a prime-time show, ATAS argued. East coast NATAS retorted: On the Internet, what's prime time? On Friday, March 16, the Los Angeles group's attorney George Hedges sent an email proposing that the two groups should agree to a ""mutual standstill"" on any new Emmy award ceremonies. ""The proposed standstill would apply to any ongoing or new projects involving new media content (including MySpace etc.),"" wrote Mr. Hedges, of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart Oliver &amp; Hedges LLP in Los Angeles. ""Both organizations have as a goal the working out a system to give Emmy awards for appropriate broadband programming,"" Dixon Dern, general counsel for the Academy of Television Arts &amp; Science. ""But for the West Coast to agree to that, we have to know that the Emmy will be protected."""
"Jason Martell, a 25-year-old self-described political junkie in Lena, Wis., is using MySpace to try to contact presidential candidates about a plan he has posted on his MySpace page for reducing energy consumption. Last week, he posted a note in the comments section of Mrs. [Hillary Clinton]'s MySpace page urging people -- Mrs. Clinton included -- to check out the plan. Mr. Martell, who is unemployed, also has sent personal notes to ""friends"" of Mrs. Clinton's on MySpace, asking them to pass his plan on to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Martell, who hasn't heard back from Mrs. Clinton or her campaign, doesn't think the candidates' MySpace pages are substantively different from, say, their own campaign Web sites. ""I think they're just advertising themselves,"" he says. Still, he says he thinks the pages nonetheless improve his chances of getting his message across to Mrs. Clinton and other candidates. YouTube and other Web sites say they don't plan to stop users from posting negative videos or comments. ""There's going to be a degree of unpredictability"" on the Internet, says Jordan Hoffner, YouTube's director of content partnerships. ""That's the nature of the medium we're in."""
"While newspapers have had success building heavily trafficked Web sites, ""people still don't automatically think to visit a TV-station Web site,"" says Brent Magid, chief executive officer of media consultancy Frank Magid Associates Inc. ""Stations need to do something online to get noticed."" WITN, a Greenville, N.C., station owned by Gray Television Group Inc., is hosting video tours of houses for sale on its Web site, while Nashville's WKRN, owned by Young Broadcasting Inc., started blogs on everything from religion to hunting. Meredith Corp.'s WNEM in Flint, Mich., produced a whole program -- a type of senior-citizen talent show, including a voting element a la ""American Idol"" -- for its site. Prompting station executives to shift to an ""always on"" mentality -- breaking news on the Web around the clock -- has been hard, says Jonathan Leess, president of CBS Stations Digital Media Group.""They needed to understand that this is a threat,"" he says. ""If they continued with a holding-back approach it will severely limit their growth."""
"""Every e-commerce company today is a new-media company tomorrow,"" says John Textor, chief executive of Baby Universe Inc., which recently launched video, accompanied by display ads, on its Web site. He says cost pressures are eroding online retailers' traditional fear that display ads will distract users there to shop. ""Advertising margins are considerably stronger than e-commerce margins."" For other sites, video offers a chance to engage and entertain shoppers. Liberty Media's BuyCostumes.tv features more than 100 clips of costume-clad models, both kids and adults, walking across a stage at a local studio. Two hosts comment on topics like how a superhero's removable mask makes his costume a sensible choice for a party where food will be served. The site will soon launch a feature that allows users to upload their own costume commentaries as well, hoping the feature will generate interest and repeat sales. ""Video helps us convey that jewelry is like a haute-couture dress,"" says Shmuel Gniwisch, chief executive of Ice.com. ""We want people to feel like they are buying a lifestyle."""
"Take General Electric's ""ecomagination"" campaign promoting the company's green energy and technology initiatives. Web surfers who checked out AOL News, Yahoo News or MSNBC.com on the afternoon of May 24 saw a live video featuring GE Chief Executive Jeffrey Immelt and California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger at a ""Green is Universal"" news conference discussing energy issues. The video played on 95,000 people's computers, and even though it was appearing on news sites, it clearly wasn't a news story. It was part of an ad. GE is one of a growing number of marketers to use videos of live events to spice up banner ads. ""We're always trying to do something a little more innovative and entertaining and be more influential,"" says Jen Walsh, digital media director for GE. ""Year over year we try to push the envelope with technology, content and design. Broadcasting [online video through an ad] achieves that."" To be sure, some marketers question whether redesigning the banner ad is worth it. The ads might temporarily catch a Web surfer's eye because people haven't yet trained themselves to ignore them, but could easily fall into ranks of yet another ignored banner ad or a hated pop-up, says Greg Verdino, chief strategy officer at independently owned new-media marketing firm crayon. ""I think the first natural inclination for advertisers and agencies is for them to innovate within the four walls of the space that they've been given before you look to innovate by breaking that space and doing something that's truly first to the market,"" Mr. Verdino says."
"In a video posted on Superpages.com for Kent Floral in Kent, Wash., the camera pans a flower shop where a baby holds a yellow flower and an announcer declares, ""We're not your typical dot-com florist."" Lora Cree, the shop's owner, said she bought the video ad to let customers know her store wasn't simply an order-taking service. The video was made by a crew hired by Superpages.com; she had some input on the content. At the same time, advertisers have to be careful that they don't hurt business with ads that look too cheesy. Some directory businesses hire videographers who try to steer advertisers away from content that might turn off consumers. But it doesn't always work. Some of the ads look like snippets of infomercials with shots of cheery employees answering phones at a beauty salon, for example. Directory companies try to avoid problems by screening ads to make sure they're G-rated and include basic information about businesses. ""The ad shows customers the quality we deliver,"" said Mr. [Achmar]. ""And once they see the video they don't have to go further browsing through the Web site or have to do any reading anymore."""
"""There's a huge lack of high-quality inventory to sponsor,"" says Michael Shehan, chief executive officer of online video-ad network SpotXchange, a unit of Booyah Networks, which has run ads for the film ""1408"" and for companies like SunTrust Banks on Voxant's network of niche Web sites. Voxant has a team of researchers who spend much of their time searching for obscure Web sites in areas like sports, entertainment, news, health and business. It has a separate team of people who monitor those sites for offensive language or images. Sites that violate Voxant's decency policies, or those of its clients, are quickly pulled off the roster, says Voxant CEO, Jeffrey Crigler. A handful of companies are trying to fill the middleman function that Voxant provides. But the Reston, Va., company is one of the few that has struck deals with about 230 publishers including the AP, BBC and The Wall Street Journal, a unit of Dow Jones. When a Web site decides to embed a news story from Voxant, Voxant and the news provider each receive 40% of the revenue; the Web site receives the other 20%."
"A new crop of Web entertainment sites has popped up in recent months, many of them featuring scripted, episodic short-form content known as ""webisodes."" The online offerings include Web sites that feature video shorts, such as Break.com; scripted original series such as ""quarterlife,"" a 36-episode series from top TV producers Marshall Herskovitz and Edward Zwick, known for the series ""thirtysomething""; and ""Prom Queen,"" the Web-only drama produced by former Walt Disney Co. Chief Executive Michael Eisner. One of Break's most popular shows is a series it licensed from General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal unit called ""Hot Crush"" featuring two young women breaking things. A recent two-minute episode features the duo throwing and dropping items frozen with liquid nitrogen, such as watermelons. While that series doesn't run with advertising pre- or post-clip, the site overall is dotted with ads for a coming Sony movie, ""Walk Hard,"" and the TBS show ""Frank TV."" Mydamnchannel.com is running channels created by personalities with Hollywood street cred, like Harry Shearer, who voices several characters on ""The Simpsons."" Mydamnchannel CEO and former MTV executive Rob Barnett says he supports the writers' demands and hopes the strike will bring in more viewers. ""When there is nothing but repeats [on television], people will go searching for alternatives,"" he says. Mr. Shearer says those who do will notice the difference, both creatively and commercially. ""No homogenization due to network and studio interference,"" he says. ""No being bombarded with multiple- minute ""pods"" of 15-second ads and promos."""
