  In a bid to attract more advertising dollars and shift advertiser budgets away from TV, YouTube over the next few years could end up spending hundreds of millions of dollars in cash advances to video producers around the world to create high-quality, original content for YouTube.
  The move would add a new revenue stream for YouTube and its thousands of content partners, and it could potentially help the site lure new video creators who want a subscription model rather than rely only on advertising, these people said.
  German car maker Audi posted three versions of its ad on YouTube and let consumers select which ending should air, while Ford Motor's Lincoln brand started a Twitter campaign that asked people to tweet their most memorable road-trip stories.
"  VivendiSA's Universal Music Publishing Group has struck deals with Maker Studios Inc. and Fullscreen Inc., two of the biggest ""multichannel networks""--a new breed of digital entertainment companies that distribute, promote and sometimes produce videos specifically made for Google Inc.'s YouTube."
  Separately, Google's YouTube video website is trying to obtain licenses from music labels to start a paid subscription service for music videos and potentially also for audio-only songs, these people said.
"  Michael Hayes, president of digital at ad agency Initiative, a unit of Interpublic Group of Cos, said there is ""downward pressure on advertiser rates due to the sheer volume of options that advertisers have"" through YouTube's rivals."
  [...]YouTube has changed some of its policies to help video creators generate more revenue from their videos, both on and off the site.
  [...]YouTube has altered some of its policies to help video creators generate more revenue.
  The transaction adds Yahoo to the list of established Internet companies, including Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., that have spent $1 billion or more apiece to buy startup companies in hopes of gaining an edge in growth. Yahoo Chief Executive Marissa Mayer's deal for Tumblr gives Yahoo, one of the original big Internet companies, a fast-growing Web service that could fill one of its many holes--namely, the lack of a thriving social-networking and communications hub.
"  What's different with ""Some Girl(s)"" is that it marks the first new release to use the Vimeo On Demand platform, which gives filmmakers a generous 90% cut of the revenue generated by the film -- compared with 70% on iTunes, or 50% from a cable operator -- and complete control over pricing and marketing."
  Wall Street Journal reporter Katherine Rosman recently invited YouTube creators and behind-the-camera marketers and brokers to discuss how the creative process can become a business in an . John McCarus, at the advertising agency Digitas, whose clients include Whirlpool and Sprint Is it difficult to convince consumer-product advertisers to invest in advertising on YouTube, a platform with a demographic and content that can be very different from broadcast and cable programming?
"  The major YouTube stars were ushered behind back staircases and accompanied by walkie-talkie toting assistants who told teenage girls ""no pictures."" [...]the preponderance of attendees were casual users like Owen and Elliott Desai, 17-year-old identical twin brothers from Minnesota breaking into their first VidCon with 250 business cards printed with their senior picture on it."
"  Other mainstream-media companies have launched channels for YouTube, while also putting their cable network programming online, available for pay TV subscribers, a strategy called ""TV Everywhere."""
