"Mr. [Jordan Golson]'s site -- at jlgolson.blogspot.com -- is just one of dozens of locations on the Internet hosting amateur videos of the Indian Ocean disaster. Many have been deluged with visitors eager to see more of the gripping footage than TV offers, or to watch videos over and over again on their own time. Some of these ""video blogs,"" like Mr. Golson's, are pre-existing text blogs, which typically include commentary and views on current events. Others have just sprung up in the last week. WaveofDestruction.org, created by an Australian blogger to host tsunami videos, logged 682,366 unique visitors from last Wednesday through Sunday morning, and has more than 25 amateur videos of the impact so far. Last year, video bloggers already showed their muscle by rapidly distributing a clip of singer Ashlee Simpson caught lip synching on ""Saturday Night Live,"" and another of the Daily Show's Jon Stewart clashing with the hosts of CNN's ""Crossfire."" According to Andreas Wacker, founder of blogsnow.com, a site that ranks blogs, the Crossfire video was downloaded by more people on the Internet than saw it on TV. ""When the Internet wants to see something, it sees it,"" he says. Bloggers don't charge for access, but they haven't been paying for copyrighted footage, either. And bloggers seldom ask each other for permission. ""The law really hasn't caught up,"" says Mr. Golson. ""The rule of thumb is you can take stuff as long as you say where you got it from,"" and as long as you don't sell it, he adds."
"All of this is free to anyone with a taste for videos and an idea of where to find them. While many of the major search engines such as Google and Yahoo have video search sections, the results are often cluttered with extraneous material, just as they can be for text searches. It usually makes more sense to look for videos on a Web site that focuses on your topic: Go to a news network's site for the latest videos from the war in Iraq, a music site for the latest video from your favorite artist, a sports site for clips from last night's games, etc. To help you explore the expanding world of online videos, here's a sampling of some good places to start looking: Reuters also serves up a wide selection of video on topics such as world news, business and entertainment at TV.Reuters.com. Its popular ""Oddly Enough"" section offers funny and strange videos, such as a mouse riding a surfboard in Australia, or a man who repairs computers using his feet. Selecting any of the topic ""channels"" on the site's main page -- including ""Top News"" for the latest developments -- allows visitors to scroll through a listing of every video in that section. Video blogging isn't only for the personal or experimental. Some newspapers, such as the Spokesman Review, based in Spokane, Wash., are getting their feet wet with vlogs. As reporter Colin Mulvany explains on the site (SpokesmanReview.com/blogs/video), ""I want to tell stories the local TV news stations, with their breathless reporters, doing live standups of stale stories, fail to do anymore."" His almost daily vlogs touch on ""great little stories that go unnoticed each day,"" such as a profile of a Native American Vietnam veteran, a fire that ruined a local resident's home, and the prerelease party for the newest Harry Potter book."
"""If you launch a channel of any kind and the content is popular, people will sponsor it,"" says a spokesman for for TiVo Inc., which has explored new forms of advertising. ""With vlogs the jury is still out."" For Mr. [Steve Garfield], vlogging is an easy outlet for his creative side. It's unlikely a major network would pick up ""The Carol and Steve Show,"" but the Internet allows him to broadcast his show as much as he wants along with other videos that teach would-be vloggers basic video techniques, as well a show he narrates called ""Vlog Soup"" pointing out his top picks among new vlogs. ""It's part of the democratization of media,"" says Mr. Garfield. ""It gives people the tools to express themselves and be creative in all different ways."""
